1. For consumers, the fact that insurance is associated with losses
   A. Increases the cost.
   B. Increases the ease of transactions.
   C. Increases the level of service.
   D. Increases the emotional nature of transactions.

   

2. The Quality Revolution was brought to America largely by W. Edwards Deming and

   A. Joseph Juran.
   B. Ron Zemke.
   C. Carl Atkins.
   D. Karl Albrecht.

   

3. Dollar Insurance Company recently modified its billing plan by adding a monthly installment option that contains a "use fee." After its implementation, Dollar wants to monitor customer satisfaction regarding this option for the first three months. Which one of the following tools will provide Dollar with the desired results?

   A. Complaint log
   B. Control chart
   C. Change chart
   D. Moment of truth chart

   

4. The eight dimensions of quality serve to aid an organization in analyzing the characteristics of quality. One of those characteristics is durability, which refers to the useful life of a product and is closely related to which one of the following?

   A. Responsiveness
   B. Reliability
   C. Performance
   D. Conformance



5. Process level, output level, and outcome level measurements are used when
   A. Implementing solutions.
   B. Developing and testing ideas.
   C. Defining the problem in terms of the process.
   D. Measuring performance.



6. The required roles of leadership include all of the following, EXCEPT:
   A. Align
   B. Empower
   C. Envision
   D. Coordinate



7. The principal of the Smith Insurance Agency is constantly striving to improve the quality of service from the agency.  Smith regularly encourages his employees to be prompt and eager to help customers.  Which one of the following RATER criteria is Smith trying to achieve?
   A. Assurance
   B. Responsiveness
   C. Empathy
   D. Reliability



8. To have quality measurement requires measuring performance on all of the following levels, EXCEPT:
   A. Input
   B. Output
   C. Outcome
   D. Work process



9. If the expression "top down" is applied to an inverted pyramid organizational structure, which one of the following groups is at the bottom of the pyramid?
   A. Sales and customer service representatives
   B. Support services
   C. Customers
   D. Senior management



10. The way to discover whether the variation in a process is attributable to common or special causes is by constructing a
    A. Control chart.
    B. Moment-of-truth chart.
    C. Change chart.
    D. Fishbone diagram.



11. Identifying key processes is accomplished by raising all of the following questions, EXCEPT:
    A. Which owners have the greatest influence?
    B. Which processes produce the most important outputs?
    C. Which outputs are of the greatest importance?
    D. Which processes are most visible to customers?



12. Reputation is the basis for which one of the following eight dimensions of quality?
    A. Conformance
    B. Serviceability
    C. Perceived quality
    D. Features



13. The manufacturing work process has a
    A. Customer orientation.
    B. Quality orientation.
    C. Product orientation.
    D. Feedback orientation.



14. When customers call Super-Mart, a major department store, they receive a series of telephone prompts with options to be routed to specific departments within Super-Mart. Nevertheless, in the last year, Super-Mart management has noticed an increase in customer complaints over misdirected calls. Therefore, Super-Mart management established a goal for the coming year to reduce the number of customer call transfers by 25% by cross-training all employees in all departmental functions. Which one of the following best restates the problem in terms of the process?
    A. Improve the call routing process.
    B. Improve the hiring process.
    C. Improve the complaint-handling process.
    D. Improve the training process.



15. A work group is the customer of its
    A. Supplier.
    B. Vendor.
    C. Stakeholder.
    D. Supervisor.



16. Regina Flanagan, the owner of Regina's Flower Shop, agrees to allow Peter Adcock, an independent agent to provide a quote for Regina's Businessowners Policy.  Adcock submits applications for insurance to two underwriters, Nicky Adams of Solid P&C and afterwards to Sam Rogers of Trusted P&C.  The ultimate end user in this case is

    A. Nicky Adams.
    B. Sam Rogers.
    C. Peter Adcock.
    D. Regina Flanagan.



17. Many organizations take their purpose for granted. But when the question is seriously considered, differing opinions often emerge. By discussing the organization’s purpose, agreeing on it, and reducing the mission to writing, an organization accomplishes all of the following, EXCEPT:
    A. It provides guidance for decision-making and builds consensus.
    B. It consciously gives employees the ability to identify with the mission.
    C. It clarifies the nature of the organization.
    D. It describes, in a broad statement, how the organization intends to look in the future.



18. Employees of Willistown Insurance Company completed detailed training sessions on the principles of continuous improvement, data-gathering methods, and statistical tools. Since that time, many employees have discussed among themselves and at departmental meetings how "We spent all that time in training for quality improvement but nothing has improved. It’s just business as usual." What stage of continuous improvement maturation has Willistown Insurance Company accomplished?
    A. Education
    B. Problem solving
    C. Integration
    D. Consensus



19. The quality criteria that can "add value" to a transaction is
    A. Faster.
    B. Cheaper.
    C. Better.
    D. Nonrepetitive.



20. On the compliance-commitment scale, which one of the following is the closest to commitment?
    A. Enrollment
    B. Apathy
    C. Trust
    D. Formal compliance



21. The strategic definition of quality is
    A. Conformance to requirements.
    B. Meeting or exceeding customers’ needs.
    C. Meeting specifications.
    D. Acting before being asked.



22. The requirements of the customer define the quality of which of the following?
    A. The output the process should produce
    B. The process improvement tool
    C. Team leadership
    D. All of the above



23. The inability to centrally produce, inspect, and stockpile insurance is
    A. A characteristic of insurance that indicates it is a service.
    B. A common consumer complaint about insurance.
    C. A benefit of insurance as an intangible product.
    D. A characteristic of insurance consumers do not experience personally.



24. Documenting, defining, and understanding the parts and interrelationship of the parts best describes which one of the following elements of process management?
    A. Process planning
    B. Process control
    C. Process measurement
    D. Process ownership



25. An insurer settles a property damage claim submitted by one of its policyholders. This is an example of a work process in which
    A. Specifications of the process can be determined in advance.
    B. Coproduction is necessary to the transaction.
    C. The output is tangible.
    D. The process is repetitive in nature.



26. "During the next decade, we want to become the preferred provider of commercial property and liability insurance to chemical manufacturers worldwide" is an example of an organization’s
    A. Objectives.
    B. Goals.
    C. Mission.
    D. Vision.



27. During the past several months, the claim customer service department at Bradford Insurance Company has received a large number of complaints from its customers. The majority of the complaints were that the customers were unable to reach a live person with whom to discuss their claim. The customers kept getting voice mail and a return call from the claim personnel took several days. The manager of the claim customer service unit, Al Key, decided that this problem needed to be addressed and adjustments needed to be made to improve this process. Which one of the following would be the next best step in working toward process improvement?
    A. Create a flowchart or graphic depiction of the claim reporting work process. Instruct a committee to study the flowchart.
    B. Develop and test ideas to improve the process. For example, establish a staffing procedure where one claim customer service representative is available at all times to assist customers from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m.
    C. Define the problem in terms of the process. Redefine the process in terms of output.
    D. Measure performance of the current process utilizing a process measure such as turnaround time for returning a call to the claimant or insured. Track performance over time.



28. A stakeholder is
    A. Any customer that meets the Deming specifications.
    B. Anyone with an interest in an organization.
    C. A person or entity holding shares of an organization.
    D. Anyone with an insurable interest in property.



29. Janice Pentz, team leader of the new claim data entry unit at XYZ Insurance Company, has determined that the entry personnel cannot input all new claims received into the claim system upon receipt due to lack of complete information. An analysis of two weeks’ worth of these new claims shows that 30 have no date of loss and 20 list an incomplete name of the claimant. The new claim data entry unit is best described as
    A. A work group.
    B. An owner.
    C. A supplier.
    D. An output.



30. Goshen Insurance Company’s claim filing clerks have spent an increased amount of time searching for misfiled claim files. Their supervisor has decided that he needs to determine why this is occurring. A likely way for him to attack the problem is by
    A. Doing nothing as the problem is inherent to the process and cannot be fixed.
    B. Creating a change chart.
    C. Constructing a fishbone diagram during a meeting with the claim clerks.
    D. Creating and maintaining a complaint log.



31. Regarding the three requirements for empowered employees, alignment
    A. Makes sure that needs of employees and external customers are met.
    B. Ensures that employees understand how, why, and what to do.
    C. Brings about a unique vision for each employee.
    D. Means sharing power by granting employees more responsibility.



32. All of the following are benefits of customer orientation, EXCEPT:
    A. Enhanced new product development
    B. Increased workflow
    C. Improved processes
    D. Increased policyholder retention



33. During which one of the following stages of team development does the team become an integrated whole, working together toward its goal?
    A. Norming
    B. Performing
    C. Forming
    D. Storming



34. The manager who formed the team serves as a coach but is not active in the routine operations of the team during which one of the following stages of team development?
    A. Forming
    B. Performing
    C. Norming
    D. Storming



35. The top management of ABC united in their commitment to embark on a continuous improvement mission. They successfully initiated company-wide learning processes on the principles of customer service. Employees understood their departmental and individual goals and objectives. Quality circles found ways to improve customer satisfaction and processes. Top management now feels that the best way to implement the improvements identified by the quality circles is to change the organizational structure. What stage in the maturation process has ABC reached?
    A. Integration
    B. Education
    C. Deployment
    D. Problem solving



36. Coproduction means that
    A. Two or more production processes are coordinated.
    B. Customers are involved in the production of outputs.
    C. The work process involves a business partner.
    D. Tangible and intangible benefits have been combined.



37. In the "understanding why" step of the process improvement model, the aim is to
    A. Create output measures of the process’s capability.
    B. Identify where problem treatment can bring the greatest increase in customer satisfaction.
    C. Measure all activities that can be measured.
    D. Remove bottlenecks in the process that increase errors and response time.



38. Which one of the following continuous improvement or quality awards is intended for organizations involved in insurance and risk management?
    A. The Philip B. Crosby Quality Award
    B. The Arthur Quern Quality Award
    C. The Deming Quality Award
    D. The Malcolm Baldridge Quality Award



39. Customers’ assessments of the quality of service they have received tend to be lower when
    A. They test it out in advance.
    B. They try to sell it.
    C. They encounter numerous employees during delivery.
    D. They have to deal with people.



40. A & B Insurance Agency’s management is concerned that the organization has not been "customer friendly" to insureds calling in to report their claims. Which one of the following data collection tools would be most beneficial to the organization to track the performance in handling these calls?
    A. Complaint log
    B. Moment-of-truth chart
    C. Histogram
    D. Control chart



41. Insurance benefits society by reducing the burden that would be imposed on it by uncompensated victims of accidents. Many consumers do not necessarily view this as a benefit because
    A. They do not experience it personally.
    B. They do not believe it.
    C. They never hear about it.
    D. They do not find it desirable.



42. Which one of the following is a benefit of insurance that is not so much experienced as taken for granted by customers?
    A. The insurance product is a complex, legal document.
    B. The insurance product is associated with potential losses.
    C. The insurance product is a tangible product.
    D. The insurance product reduces uncertainty.



43. An insurance agency sought to discover ways of improving its billing procedures by comparing its own procedures with those of other agencies in the same geographical area. This is an example of which one of the following?
    A. Internal benchmarking
    B. Competitive benchmarking
    C. Functional benchmarking
    D. Generic benchmarking



44. Ensuring that outputs are predictable and consistent with customer expectations is called
    A. Process functioning.
    B. Process measurement.
    C. Process planning.
    D. Process control.



45. XYZ Insurance Company has a standardized procedure that requires claims personnel to return all telephone calls to customers within 24 hours. This is an example of which one of the following measures?
    A. Income measures
    B. Outcome measures
    C. Work process measures
    D. Output measures



46. Key processes are those work processes that are essential to an organization and that do which of the following?
    A. Generate the greatest revenues
    B. Create the highest quality measurements
    C. Have the most influence on customers
    D. All of the above



47. Listening to the voice of the customer assists insurance organizations in new product development because customers
    A. Have unmet explicit expectations.
    B. Are constantly solicited for their input via customer questionnaires and surveys.
    C. File complaints relating to product innovations.
    D. Are the largest single source of new product ideas.



48. A moment-of-truth chart
    A. Determines customer expectations.
    B. Tracks whether customer expectations are met.
    C. Collects customer complaints.
    D. Tracks changes in performance over time.



49. Payment for losses is an example of an insurance customer’s
    A. Implicit expectations.
    B. Innate expectations.
    C. Latent expectations.
    D. Explicit expectations.



50. Betsy Smith recently purchased a Personal Auto Policy from ABC Insurance Company. Upon receipt of her policy, Betsy noticed that her date of birth was incorrect on the declarations page of the new policy. Betsy noted a toll-free customer service department number on her policy packet. Betsy called that number and an employee of ABC Insurance Company fixed the data error. A week later, Betsy received a survey from her insurance company regarding her interaction with customer service (and a copy of the corrected declaration page). The toll-free number and customer service survey are examples of
    A. Reactive methods of listening to the voice of the process.
    B. Proactive methods of listening to the voice of the customer.
    C. Reactive methods of listening to the voice of the customer.
    D. Reactive and proactive methods of listening to the voice of the process.