1. Mith the three-part combination method of estimating loss reserves emphasis is placed entirely on which one of the following methods when only a few losses remain open?
   
   A. The loss ratio method
   B. Case loss reserves
   C. The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method
   D. The loss triangle method



2. LMN Life Insurance Company offers a number of mutual fund investment alternatives to its variable life insurance purchasers. In assessing the riskiness of one mutual fund, the fund manager said, There is a 5% probability thatthis fund could lose 2% or more of its total value on any given day.” The measure the fund manager used ta describe the probability of loss is called 

   A. Value at risk (VaR)

   B. Earnings at risk (EaR)

   C. Systematic risk

   D. Systemic risk.



3. Which one of the following accident analysis techniques categorizes conceivable failures of a system into predetermined classes, assigns a probability to these failures, and ranks system failures?

   A. Criticality analysis
   B. Job safety analysis
   C. Fault tree analysis
   D.  5 Whys analysis



4. Assuming a probability distribution with the following values:

   |                    |      |
   | ------------------ | ---- |
   | Mean               | 7    |
   | Median             | 5    |
   | Standard deviation | 2.4  |

   What is the coefficient of variation?

   A. 0.343
   B. 0.480
   C. 1.400
   D. 2.917



5. Cox Concrete Company, a newly formed company, is evaluating alternative risk management techniques to address its net income exposure. Cox operates three concrete mixer trucks from its central facility, which pick up their loads of concrete 10 miles away. The three trucks are in continuous use. For each mixer truck, the probability of being involved in a traffic accident has been estimated to be 0.10 per year. The average after-tax loss of net income following an accident has been estimated to be 48,000 from lost business and lost goodwill from customers. Each truck generates 96,000 annually in after-tax net income. If Cox chooses to simply recognize but does nothing to manage its net income exposure, what is the expected cost per year?

   A. 8,000
   B. 14,400
   C. 48,000
   D. 96,000



6. Which one of the following methods for setting claim reserves would likely produce the most accurate reserves for auto bodily injury claims?

   A. Bulk reserve method
   B. Combined judgment and average methods
   C. Average method
   D. Judgment method

   

7. In determining the probability of fire losses, risk professional Carl has created a probability distribution displayed in a table that lists all possible outcomes and the probability of each outcome. He uses the distribution to analyze how often a fire will occur. Therefore there are a countable number of outcomes. Carl is using a

   A. Continuous probability distribution.
   B. Discrete probability distribution.
   C. Theoretical probability distribution.
   D. Finite probability distribution.

   

8. James owns a two story home with a basement in Florida.  The risk of wind damage to his home would be classified as

   A. Speculative and diversifiable.
   B. Pure and diversifiable.
   C. Pure and nondiversifiable.
   D. Speculative and nondiversifiable.



9. Alyssa, the workers compensation manager for Craten Industries, has developed the following tables to evaluate worker injuries. The values in the Accident Conditional Probability Table represent the percentage of accidents in relation to the workers' levels of experience and the complexity of machines.

   Accident Conditional Probability Table
    	Worker Experience
   Machine Type	Inexperienced	Experienced
   Simple	3%	0%
   Complex	35%	5%
   Alyssa obtains the below information from the Human Development Department regarding worker experience and from the plant foreman on machine complexity.

   Worker Experience and Machine Complexity Percentages
   Worker Experience	Inexperienced	Experienced
    	20%
   80%
   Machine Complexity	Simple	Complex
    	30%
   70%
   Below Alyssa calculated the probabilities of inexperienced and experienced workers' assignment to simple or complex machines based on random assignment.

   Probability of Worker Assignment to Machine Type
    	Worker Experience
   Machine Type	Inexperienced (20%)	Experienced (80%)
   Simple (30%)
   30% x 20% = 6%	30% x 80% = 24%
    	(12 workers)	(48 workers)
   Complex (70%)
   70% x 20% = 14%	70% x 80% = 56%
    	(28 workers)	(112 workers)

   In preparing a workers compensation accident probability table, what is the probability of an accident occurring with an inexperienced worker operating a simple machine based on random assignment?
   A. .18%
   B. 3.00%
   C. 6.00%
   D. 6.18%



10. Many manufacturers have a primary supplier of the raw materials used in their processes, but also maintain a contract with an alternative supplier. Having the alternative supplier in place demonstrates which one of the following risk control techniques?

    A. Separation
    B. Duplication
    C. Diversification
    D. Avoidance



11. Which one of the following statements is correct with respect to the Prouty Approach?

    A. It helps remove subjectivity from loss exposure analysis.
    B. It categorizes loss frequency as severe, significant, or slight.
    C. It helps determine which loss exposures to avoid, retain, and transfer.
    D. It can only be used effectively by very large organizations.



12. The effects of historical environmental changes such as inflation, regulatory changes, and improved safety standards, are projected for ratemaking through

    A. General expense projections.
    B. Loss trending.
    C. Allocated loss adjustment expenses.
    D. Contingencies provisions.



13. Major differences in ratemaking for different lines of business can be found in the experience period used. A factor used in determining the experience period to employ is
    A. Reserve levels.
    B. Losses incurred.
    C. Legal requirements.
    D. The expense ratio.



14. Which one of the following is an advantage of using failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA)?
    A. It is a completely objective process.
    B. It identifies problems early in the process.
    C. It is easily conducted by one risk management individual.
    D. It is a simple and low cost process.



15. Barnley’s Furniture Company’s risk manager is gathering information about past losses. To date he has captured liability loss information on DUI accidents and windshield losses over the past five years. Which one of the following criteria on past losses has the risk manager failed to meet?

    A. Data should be relevant
    B. Data should be timely
    C. Data should be constant
    D. Data should be organized



17. The financial component of a catastrophe model

    A. Estimates the amount of time that may be required to repair damage based on a simulated catastrophe.
    B. Considers whether in-force policies are on an actual cash value (ACV) basis or on a replacement cost basis.
    C. Estimates the extent of structural damage that would occur based on a simulated catastrophe.
    D. Simulates catastrophic events to determine hazard intensity, and frequency and location of these events.



18. A presentation of probability estimates of a particular set of circumstances and of the probability of each possible outcome is the definition of

    A. A probability distribution.
    B. Probability analysis.
    C. Skewness.
    D. A standard deviation.



19. Insurer C (IC) has calculated its actual loss ratio to be 75 percent. IC's expected loss ratio is 70 percent. Using the loss ratio ratemaking method, which one of the following represents the indicated rate change?

    A. 7% decrease
    B. 5% decrease
    C. 5% increase
    D. 7% increase



20. A key benefit of the Value at Risk (VaR) measure is that
    A. No computations are needed to estimate VaR.
    B. Complex positions are expressed as a single figure.
    C. It has no limitations as a risk measure.
    D. High probability events can be analyzed over long periods of time.



21. Which one of the following is considered a weakness of the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method of loss reserving?A. The use of bulk reserving for expense estimates
    B. The assumption that the historical pattern of development will continue into the future
    C. The level of subjectivity involved in selecting incurred but not reported (IBNR) factors
    D. The use of judgmental weights for different types of insurance



22. Which one of the following statements is true regarding the root cause analysis (RCA) process?

    A. RCA is used to determine the underlying cause of a positive or negative event.
    B. RCA is typically used after an event has occurred.
    C. The goal of RCA is to identify the one causal factor associated with the event.
    D. RCA is usually used to identify root causes that are environmental.

    

23. Steve is a regional manager for Keithly Insurance Agency. He has been advised that his region's goal for 20X5 is to grow its book of business by 10%. Steve is trying to decide whether to target growth by acquiring new customers or by cross-selling additional policies to current customers. Which one of the following types of analysis should Steve use?

    A. Decision tree analysis
    B. Linear regression analysis
    C. Prouty approach
    D. Event tree analysis



24. A commercial insurer has a plan to expand its market share of property insurance by 10 percent over the next two years.  It plans to continue to be selective based on risk quality, but recognizes that it may need to compromise some profit.  Which one of the following ideal characteristics of rates is most likely to be compromised under this growth plan?

    A. Promote risk control
    B. Responsive
    C. Provide for contingencies
    D. Not excessive



25. Which one of the following represents the percentage of outcomes that occur within three standard deviations above or below the mean in a normal distribution?

    A. 42.26%
    B. 68.26%
    C. 99.74%
    D. 100.00%



26. Midwestern Insurance Company specializes in automobile insurance. Based on the following data, what are the incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves using the percentage method?

    | Total Incurred Loss and Loss Expenses | Months of Development | IBNR Factor |
    | ------------------------------------- | --------------------- | ----------- |
    | 1,750,000                             | 48                    | .00         |
    | 2,000,000                             | 36                    | .05         |
    | 2,250,000                             | 24                    | .10         |
    | 2,500,000                             | 12                    | .20         |

    A. 500,000
    B. 725,000
    C. 825,000
    D. 900,000



27. Susan Smith, a risk manager, is forecasting future losses for a manufacturing company. She calculates a linear trend that represents the company’s losses for the past four years. The dependent variable (annual number of losses) is charted on the vertical (y) axis; the independent variable (years) is charted on the horizontal (x) axis. When computing the calculation for the linear trend, Susan finds that the value for "b" (the y-intercept) is four and the value for "m" (the slope) is .80. Product output for the company has been increasing by 10% each year, and this yearly increase is expected to continue. Susan has been asked to forecast losses for 10 years into the future. In addition, management advises that several safety features have been put in place on the assembly line and that they, therefore, expect losses to decrease over time.

    Which one of the following best expresses the results of the linear trend?

    A. The number of losses will increase by .8 each year.
    B. The number of losses will decrease by .8 each year.
    C. The number of losses will increase by four each year.
    D. The number of losses will decrease by four each year.



28. The Prouty Approach suggests that loss exposures with slight severity and moderate to definite frequency should be

    A. Insured.
    B. Avoided.
    C. Transferred.
    D. Retained.



29. Which one of the following is true regarding the time horizon as a measure of risk?
    A. A risk's time horizon cannot be measured.
    B. Generally, the time horizon of a risk is controllable.
    C. Diversification can sometimes be used to help manage risks associated with time horizons. 
    D. Shorter time horizons are generally riskier than longer ones.



30. Diversification is more commonly applied to managing

    A. Hazard risks.
    B. Cause of loss risks.
    C. Business risks.
    D. Commercial risks.

    

31. Which one of the following statements correctly describes the relationship between critical success factors (CSF) and key performance indicators (KPI)?

    A. A KPI measures an activity that signals the achievement of a CSF.
    B. A KPI is a financial measurement and a CSF is a nonfinancial measurement.
    C. A CSF helps refine a KPI and clarify its intent.
    D. A CSF is a lagging measurement and a KPI is a predicting factor.

    

32. One of the strategic objectives for JMG Plumbing is customer satisfaction. JMG currently uses surveys to monitor satisfaction. Which one of the following would be an appropriate key risk indicator (KRI) for customer satisfaction risk?

    A. Track, quantify, and monitor customer retention and complaints
    B. Increase number of new customer referrals
    C. Monitor capacity utilization
    D. Increase customer retention rate

    

33. The table below shows the auto liability loss experience for Insurer B (IB). The losses are over a three-year period, with Year 1 being the earliest year and Year 3, the most recent year. Using the information in the table, and considering the fact that IB insured 100,000 cars each year during this three-year period, which one of the following statements is true?

    Auto Liability Loss Experience at Year 3 End

    | Year  | Paid Losses | Loss Reserves | Incurred Losses |
    | ----- | ----------- | ------------- | --------------- |
    | 1     | 15,000,000  | 0             | 15,000,000      |
    | 2     | 9,000,000   | 6,000,000     | 15,000,000      |
    | 3     | 4,500,000   | 10,500,000    | 15,000,000      |
    | total | 28,500,000  | 16,500,000    | 45,000,000      |

    A. If this loss experience is used by IB to develop rates for a future period, any inadequacy in the loss reserves would make future rates inadequate.
    B. If IB uses the pure premium indicated by this loss experience to develop rates for a future period, the adequacy of loss reserves will not matter because loss reserves will be excluded from the analysis.
    C. Assuming the information in the table is accurate, IB needs a pure premium of 95 per car, per year, to pay its losses during this past three-year period.
    D. Assuming the information in the table is accurate, IB needs a pure premium of 55 per car, per year, to pay its losses during this past three-year period.



34. Which one of the following statements is true regarding the accident-year method of estimating losses?

    A. As loss payments are made during the accident year, incurred losses decrease.
    B. As reserves are increased or decreased due to new information on claims, incurred losses remain unchanged.
    C. An accident year's accounts may be kept open until all losses that occurred in that year are fully paid.
    D. As loss payments are made during the accident year, incurred losses increase.

    

35. Probabilities that are attached to the lower rectangles in the fault tree allow events successively higher in the tree to be calculated. If the probabilities of the following diagram are as follows: event X=.20, event Y=.25, and event Z=.30, then what is the probability that the guard is removed?

    A. .015
    B. .075
    C. .150
    D. .750



36. The correlation between the returns provided by ABC stock and the overall market is -.80. If the stock market goes up 10%, what return should ABC stock provide?

    A. A negative return
    B. A positive return of less than 10%
    C. There is no predictable relationship between the variables, so any result could occur with equal probability
    D. A positive return exceeding 10%



37. Decision tree analysis and event tree analysis are similar in many ways, but they differ in their

    A. Appearance.
    B. Approach.
    C. Purpose.
    D. Process.



38. Effective key risk indicators (KRI) share several key characteristics. One of these characteristics is they can be

    A. Benchmarked.
    B. Highly complex.
    C. Very generic.
    D. Used universally.



39. The four quadrants of risk approach focuses on the source of risk and

    A. How to insure against it.
    B. Whether it is hazard or non-hazard risk.
    C. Whether it is a human or natural hazard.
    D. Who has traditionally managed it.



40. Decision trees are similar to influence diagrams in

    A. Their analysis of the uncertainties of decision outcomes.
    B. Their construction.
    C. The shape they use to represent outcomes.
    D. The detail they show for each variable.



41. An organization faces a variety of risks. Which one of the following statements is correct with respect to business process risk?

    A. Unfavorable quality control reports or increased numbers of late shipments are examples of risk indicators.
    B. Generally, external factors such as changes in interest rates or government regulations do not pose a risk for an organization.
    C. An organization’s technological vision and capacity are not usually considered to be a potential source of internal risk.
    D. An organization should consider the risks to each business process singly rather than considering all risks from all processes taken together.



42. A major limitation of the "judgments of relative likelihood" method of risk modeling is

    A. The technique is often cost prohibitive given the cost of obtaining an expert’s input.
    B. It may be hard to properly quantify the expert’s opinion which is rather subjective.
    C. The expert may be unintentionally biased, and mischaracterize events based on the expert’s familiarity with the event.
    D. It may be hard to find an expert with the required knowledge and skills to render an opinion.



43. Beach Club is having the roof of its main building replaced. The contract for the roof replacement specifies that Beach Club will reimburse the roofing company directly if the roofing materials are damaged as the result of any weather-related incidents that occur during the repair process. This is an example of which one of the following risk management techniques?

    A. Indemnity agreement, which is a noninsurance risk transfer
    B. Forced retention, which is a risk financing technique
    C. Indemnity agreement, which is a loss prevention technique
    D. Hedging, which is a noninsurance risk transfer



44. An insurer is recommending a 10 percent auto liability rate increase because of the unprofitable loss ratio in that state.  An underwriter believes that the individuals that live in his section of the state deserve lower auto liability rate increases than those living in a more congested section of the state.  Which one of the following types of analysis should the underwriter request?

    A. Loss development analysis
    B. On-level premium adjustments
    C. Loss trending analysis
    D. Territorial relativity analysis



45. Which one of the following statements is true regarding the use of risk indicators in business process management (BPM)?

    A. Risk indicators support the role of judgment and intuition in BPM.
    B. Risk indicators help to incorporate technology in the BPM life cycle.
    C. Risk indicators eliminate uncertainty in the BPM life cycle.
    D. Risk indicators help the organization identify needed process improvements.



46. Which one of the following is an example of a nondiversifiable risk?

    A. A hurricane
    B. A heart attack
    C. A building fire
    D. An auto accident



47. When two variables are perfectly negatively correlated,

    A. If one variable's value goes up, the other variable's value goes down not in a direct proportion.
    B. There is no relationship between the variables.
    C. If one variable's value goes up, the other variable's value goes up in a direct proportion.
    D. If one variable's value goes up, the other variable's value goes down in a direct proportion.



48. Insurance and risk management professionals analyzing automobile accidents or workers compensation claims must use

    A. Empirical probabilities.
    B. Theoretical probabilities.
    C. Probability dispersions.
    D. Credibility factors.



49. Which one of the following statements is correct with respect to investment returns in insurance ratemaking?

    A. Insurers' investment returns are the proceeds received from selling shares in the company to investors.
    B. Some states require that investment returns be explicitly considered in insurers' rate calculations.
    C. Property-casualty insurers historically included an explicit provision for investment returns in their rates.
    D. Investment returns are more likely to affect rates for property insurance than liability insurance.

    

50. Upon learning that one of its drugs was causing muscle deterioration, Pharmaceutical Company X decided to remove the drug from the market. Which one of the following risk control techniques does this decision demonstrate?

    A. Avoidance
    B. Diversification
    C. Separation
    D. Loss reduction

    

51. Based on the data in the following loss triangle, what is a reasonable estimate for the 12-month loss development factor from 12 to 24 months for 20X3?

    | Accident Year | Months of Development (losses in 000's)<br />12 | Months of Development (losses in 000's)<br />24 | Months of Development (losses in 000's)<br />36 |
    | ------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
    | 20X1          | 800                                             | 840                                             | 874                                             |
    | 20X2          | 900                                             | 981                                             | -                                               |
    | 20X3          | 900                                             | -                                               | -                                               |

    A. 1.00
    B. 1.05
    C. 1.07
    D. 1.09



52. With the three-part combination method of estimating loss reserves, emphasis is placed entirely on which one of the following methods when only a few losses remain open?

    A. The loss ratio method
    B. Case loss reserves
    C. The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method
    D. The loss triangle method