1.1. Reinsurance Concepts

Which of the following statements is true with regard to reinsurance concepts?

I. Reinsurance is best identified as an agreement by a reinsurer to indemnify a primary insurer for losses.

II. From a regulator's perspective, if an insurer's ratio of written premium to policyholders' surplus exceeds 3 to 1, the insurer is selling more insurance than is prudent compared to the size of its net worth.

III. A primary insurer could obtain surplus relief through reinsurance by minimizing fluctuations in retained losses from year to year.

IV. The retention under a reinsurance agreement is always expressed in the form of percentage of the original amount of insurance.

V. State insurance regulation mandates that, for accounting purposes, premiums be recognized as reserve right at that moment a new policy is sold and expenses be recognized as they are earned throughout the policy's life.

(A) I and II only
(B) I and III only
(C) II and IV only
(D) II and V only

Answer

III. A primary insurer could obtain surplus relief through reinsurance by receiving ceding commissions to offset policy acquisition expenses.

IV. The retention under a surplus share or excess of loss reinsurance is expressed in the form of stipulated dollar amount.

V. For accounting purposes, expenses are recognized as reserve at the time a new policy is sold and premiums be recognized as they are earned throughout the policy's life.

The correct answer is (A) I and II only.





1.2. Reinsurance Functions

Which of the following statements is incorrect with regard to reinsurance functions?

I. Increasing large-line capacity allows a primary insurer to reduce the financial consequences of a single catastrophic event which causes multiple losses

II. Increasing large-line capacity allows a primary insurer to take a loss exposure with potential financial consequences that are higher than its financial condition would otherwise permit

III. Reinsurance is usually arranged to stabilize the loss experience of a line of insurance, a class of business, or a primary insurer's entire book of business.

IV. One method to withdrawal is for the primary insurer to transfer the liability for all outstanding policies to a reinsurer by purchasing portfolio reinsurance.

V. A novation completely eliminates the liabilities a primary insurer has assumed. It is not considered portfolio reinsurance for the reason that substitute insurer assumes the direct obligations to insureds covered by the underlying insurance.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III only
(D) IV and V only

Answer

I. Large-line capacity is an insurer's ability to reinsure a larger proportion of its single risk, not multiple risks.

The correct answer is (A) I only.



2.1. Treaty Reinsurance

Which of the following statements is not true with regard to treaty reinsurance?

I. Treaty reinsurance is best identified as a reinsurance agreement that covers a whole class or portfolio of loss exposures, and all loss exposures that fall within the treaty are automatically reinsured.

II. If treaty reinsurance agreements permitted primary insurers to select which loss exposures they ceded, the reinsurer would be exposed to adverse selection.

III. The treaty reinsurer is generally willing to allow the primary insurer to eliminate high-hazard loss exposures from the treaty by using facultative reinsurance.

IV. Treaty reinsurance agreements are usually intended to allow underwriters to exercise discretion in determining which loss exposures to cede to the treaty reinsurers.

V. A primary insurer's underwriting policy and underwriting guidelines are usually designed by its treaty reinsurer.

(A) I and II
(B) III and IV
(C) IV and V
(D) II and V

Answer

IV. Although some treaties allow the reinsurer limited discretion in reinsuring individual loss exposures, most treaties require that all loss exposures within the treaty's terms must be reinsured.

V. A primary insurer's underwriting policy and underwriting guidelines are usually developed by its staff underwriters.

The correct answer is (C) IV and V

 

2.2. Facultative Reinsurance

Which of the following statements is true with regard to facultative reinsurance?

I. The administrative costs related to placing facultative reinsurance are relatively low.

II. Facultative reinsurance is generally not an option for insuring classes of loss exposures that are excluded under treaty reinsurance.

III. Primary insurers generally use facultative reinsurance as the basis of their reinsurance program.

IV. A facultative reinsurance agreement is written for a specified time period and should not be canceled by either party unless contractual obligations, such as payment of premiums, are not met.

V. Facultative reinsurance can supply large line capacity for loss exposures that exceed the limits of treaty reinsurance agreements.

(A) I and II only
(B) III and IV only
(C) IV and V only
(D) II and V only

Answer

I. The administrative costs associated with placing facultative reinsurance are relatively high.

II. Facultative reinsurance is generally an important option for insuring classes of loss exposures that are excluded under treaty reinsurance.

III. Primary insurers generally use treaty reinsurance as the foundation of their reinsurance program.

The correct answer is (C) IV and V only



2.3. Reinsurance Transactions

Which of the following statements is not true with regard to Reinsurance Transactions?

I. A long-term partnership with a reinsurer generally allows primary insurers to consistently fulfill producers' requests to place insurance with them.

II. One role of treaty reinsurance is to protect a primary insurer's facultative reinsurance from adverse loss experience.

III. Administrative expenses per-risk are higher under a treaty reinsurance arrangement than under a facultative reinsurance arrangement.

IV. Treaty reinsurance obligates the reinsurer to assume those loss exposures that fall within the treaty.

V. Treaty reinsurance provides primary insurers with the certainty needed to formulate underwriting policy and develop underwriting guidelines.

(A) I and II only
(B) II and III only
(C) III and IV only
(D) II and V only

Answer

II. One function of facultative reinsurance is to protect a primary insurer's treaties from adverse loss experience.

III. Administrative costs per-risk are higher under a facultative reinsurance arrangement than under a treaty reinsurance arrangement.

The correct answer is (B) II and III only.



2.4. Reinsurance Sources

Which of the following statements is incorrect with regard to reinsurance sources?

I. Reinsurance pools, syndicates, and associations are groups of insurers that share the loss exposures of the group, usually through reinsurance.

II. Reinsurance intermediaries can often help secure high coverage limits and catastrophe coverage.

III. Reinsurance intermediaries generally represent professional reinsurers and receive a brokerage commission from the primary insurers.

IV. A reinsurance pool may accept loss exposures from nonmember companies or offer reinsurance only to its member companies.

V. The Brokers & Reinsurance Markets Association (BRMA) is one of important sources of reinsurance.

(A) I and III only
(B) III and V only
(C) II and IV only
(D) II and V only

Answer

III. Reinsurance intermediaries generally represent primary insurers and receive a brokerage commission from the reinsurers.

V. BRMA is one of reinsurance professional and trade association and represents intermediaries and reinsurers that are predominately engaged in United States treaty reinsurance business obtained through reinsurance brokers.

The correct answer is (B) III and V only.



2.5. Reinsurance Sources

Which of the following statements is not true with regard to reinsurance sources?

I. Professional reinsurers have interaction with other insurers either directly or through intermediaries.

II. Reinsurance pools, syndicates, and associations can be created by reinsurance intermediaries to meet their clients' needs.

III. When a primary insurer offers reinsurance it typically incorporates the reinsurance function into the existing underwriting function to leverage underwriting skills.

IV. A reinsurance intermediary negotiates the reinsurance agreement between the ceding company and the reinsurer.

V. During a record hard insurance market, four reinsurance intermediaries (brokers) teamed up to offer reinsurance to clients that were having difficulty obtaining reinsurance for several troublesome liability lines. The source of the reinsurance made available to the clients is attributable to a reinsurance pool.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) IV and V only

Answer

III. When a primary insurer offers reinsurance it usually separates the reinsurance operations to maintain the confidentiality of insurer information.

The correct answer is (B) III only.