14.1. Catastrophe Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Catastrophe Treaties?

(A) Catastrophe treaties often will not respond to a loss arising out of a single loss exposure.

(B) Most catastrophe treaties have a sufficiently high attachment point so that many of the primary insurer's policies would have to be involved in a loss for there to be any recovery.

(C) Large catastrophes have a widespread effect on the property-casualty industry because they reduce policyholders' surplus.

(D) A primary insurer may have other reinsurance that covers loss exposures that are covered under a catastrophe treaty. This other reinsurance is known as inuring reinsurance when it increases the net retention of the primary insurer.

Answer

(D) A primary insurer may have other reinsurance that covers loss exposures that are covered under a catastrophe treaty. This other reinsurance is known as inuring reinsurance when it reduces the loss to the catastrophe treaty.

The correct answer is (D).





14.2. Clauses Designed or Adapted for Catastrophe Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Clauses Designed or Adapted for Catastrophe Treaties?

I. The ultimate net loss clause in a catastrophe reinsurance treaty usually states that loss adjustment expenses of the primary insurer incurred for catastrophe losses are included.

II. The term clause defines the term of the reinsurance treaty. Catastrophe treaties are written for a one-year term only.

III. In a catastrophe reinsurance treaty the defining wording "As regards to windstorm, hail, ... , all individual losses sustained by the Company occurring during any period of 72 consecutive hours arising out of and directly occasioned by the same event" is part of term clauses.

IV. Catastrophe reinsurance treaties may include wording that limits losses arising from a single catastrophic event to those losses that occur within a specified time period. That wording would appear in loss occurrence clauses.

V. The retention and limits clause included in property catastrophe reinsurance treaties includes the per loss occurrence limit, the co-participation provision, and the net retention stated as the ultimate net loss per loss occurrence.

(A) I and II only
(B) II and III only
(C) IV and V only
(D) None of the above

Answer

II. Catastrophe treaties can be written for one or multiple years.

III. The wording is part of loss occurrence clause

The correct answer is (B) II and III only.





14.3. Catastrophe Treaty Pricing

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Catastrophe Treaty Pricing?

I. Experience rating is generally not used in pricing catastrophe treaties because underlying policies are basically fixed in number.

II. Rate changes for the subject policies are likely to have the largest impact on the geographic distribution of loss exposures in a catastrophe modeling analysis.

III. The attachment point in a catastrophe reinsurance treaty is the amount of ultimate net loss that the primary insurer will retain.

IV. Although a primary insurer's catastrophe loss experience data is somewhat useful, catastrophe treaty pricing generally uses exposure rating based on trend analysis of the primary insurer's underlying policies.

(A) I only
(B) II and III only
(C) IV only
(D) None of the above

Answer

I. Experience rating is generally not used in pricing catastrophe treaties because there are insufficient catastrophe losses to provide sufficient data.

The correct answer is (A) I only.





14.4. Catastrophe Modeling

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Catastrophe Modeling?

I. Primary insurers use the results of catastrophe models primarily to understand the catastrophe loss potential of their portfolio of in-force policies.

II. Some catastrophe models include a factor known as demand surge. Demand surge refers to the dramatic increase in repair costs that occurs immediately following a catastrophe.

III. In catastrophe modeling, the average annual loss (AAL) assists a reinsurer in developing rates. While the AAL is a useful metric, one of the most commonly used outputs of catastrophe modeling is the exceedance probability curve.

IV. The engineering component of a catastrophe model takes estimates of damage to buildings and contents and translates them into estimates of insured losses.

V. Primary Insurer presently has 30 million of catastrophe treaty reinsurance coverage based on past years' models that covered the 100-year level. One output of recent catastrophe model is that: 43.8million estimated loss with 100 years return period. Based on this figure Primary insurer should purchase an additional 14 million in limits to maintain the 100-year level.

(A) I and III only
(B) IV only
(C) II and V only
(D) None of the above

Answer

IV. The financial component of a catastrophe model takes estimates of damage to buildings and contents and translates them into estimates of insured losses. The engineering component uses the intensity information to estimate the extent of structural damage that would occur in a simulated event.

The correct answer is (B) IV only.