15.1. Aggregate Excess of Loss Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Aggregate Excess of Loss Treaties?

I. The primary function of an aggregate excess of loss treaty is to stabilize a primary insurer's loss results

II. A small primary insurer may purchase an aggregate excess of loss treaty to protect its policyholder surplus.

III. Aggregate excess of loss treaty covers an accumulation of losses from several independent events over a specified period.

IV. Since an aggregate excess of loss treaty provides increased stability to the primary insurer's loss results as the retention is reduced and the limits increased, more expensive coverage price is a reason why a primary insurer might not want to reduce the retention and increase the limits.

V. ILLI Insurance Company has purchased an aggregate excess of loss treaty covering 80% of 10 million excess of 5 million. At the end of the year, accumulated losses net of other recoverables total 15 million. ILLI’s overall loss would be 8million.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) V only

Answer

V. ILLI’s overall loss would be 7million, reinsurance recoverable from an aggregate excess of loss treaty would be 8million.

The correct answer is (D) V only.





15.2. Retention and Limits Clause for Aggregate Excess of Loss Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Retention and Limits Clause for Aggregate Excess of Loss Treaties?

I. Aggregate excess of loss treaty definitions of ultimate net loss and loss occurrence are often similar to definitions in other excess of loss treaties. One notable difference is that aggregate excess of loss treaties with a retention stated as a loss ratio do not define an occurrence.

II. A provision in an aggregate excess of loss treaty that requires the primary insurer to retain a specified percentage of losses that exceed its attachment point is known as a co-participation provision.

III. The coverage of reserve changes is a significant difference between an aggregate excess of loss treaty that applies on a losses occurring basis and one that applies on a losses incurred basis.

IV. An aggregate excess of loss treaty may have two retentions. Outside retention is usually a flat dollar amount applied to each loss, similar to a deductible.

V. Primary Insurer has an aggregate excess of loss treaty with Reinsurer. The treaty contains an internal limit of 4 million in excess of an internal retention of 1 million for each loss occurrence, subject to an outside retention of 6 million. The three losses; 1st loss 5million; 2nd loss 3million; 3rd loss 2million are subject to the treaty. Assuming the reinsurer pays 100% of the eligible losses, Primary would recover 2million under the treaty.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) III and IV only
(D) IV and V only

Answer

IV. Outside retention is the sum of losses exceeding the internal retention must also exceed the outside retention.

V. Considering internal retention 1million, the losses applied to outside retention are 1st loss 4million; 2nd loss 2million; 3rd loss 1million. Then, only 1million is over the outside retention of 6million. Assuming the reinsurer pays 100% of the eligible losses, Primary would recover 1million under the treaty.

The correct answer is (D) IV and V only.





15.3. Aggregate Excess of Loss Treaty Pricing

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Aggregate Excess of Loss Treaty Pricing?

I. The reason a primary insurer's data may not be very useful in the pricing of an aggregate excess of loss treaty is that loss accumulations that exceed an aggregate excess attachment point are generally infrequent.

II. The main determining factor for the limit of an aggregate excess of loss treaty is the cost of the reinsurance premium to the primary insurer

III. A reinsurer develops a price for an aggregate excess of loss treaty by estimating the expected losses falling between the retention and the limit.

IV. The reason aggregate excess reinsurers must use statistical techniques to set retentions and limits is that primary insurers seldom have an accumulation of historical losses that would have exceeded the attachment point of the aggregate excess reinsurance.

V. A primary insurer's historical loss data is typically of limited use to treaty reinsurers in pricing aggregate excess of loss treaties because the method of pricing differs from that used for other types of excess of loss reinsurance pricing that rely on expected losses.

(A) I only
(B) II and III only
(C) IV only
(D) V only

Answer

V. A primary insurer's historical loss data is typically of limited use to treaty reinsurers in pricing aggregate excess of loss treaties because the relevant types of losses occur too infrequently for the loss data to be useful.

The correct answer is (D) V only.