16.1. Reinsurance Audits

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Reinsurance Audits?

(A) An audit conducted by a reinsurer before committing to a new relationship is called a pre-quote audit.

(B) Transferring underwriting expertise from a reinsurer to a primary insurer is a function of reinsurance that a reinsurance audit can help fulfill.

(C) Reinsurance intermediaries are not usually subject to reinsurance audits because they are not subject to state regulation.

(D) Reinsurance auditors usually evaluate the primary insurer's management, underwriting and claim-handling philosophies, reinsurance accounting practices, and in-force policies.

Answer

(C) Reinsurance intermediaries are not usually subject to reinsurance audits because they are not parties to the reinsurance transaction.

The correct answer is (C).





16.2. The Reinsurance Audit Process

Which of the following statements is not true regarding The Reinsurance Audit Process?

I. When conducting a reinsurance audit, a decision must be made as to the scope of the audit and what will be included. Making this decision is referred to as establishing the objective.

II. An audit must ensure that accurate data has been entered into the insurer's information system. In doing so, the auditor should consider input controls.

III. When a reinsurance auditor is reconciling the information on the compiled reports with the data that was used for input purposes, the auditor is evaluating output controls.

IV. A reinsurance audit that uses formal procedures to sample and evaluate a primary insurer's data is known as flexible approach.

V. ILLI Re has just finished conducting a reinsurance audit on one of its primary insurers, Sharing, Inc. After a four-day audit, the ILLI auditors will likely now hold a session to convey audit findings to the people at Sharing. This session is known as the exit conference.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) IV and V only

Answer

IV. A reinsurance audit that uses formal procedures to sample and evaluate a primary insurer's data is known as structured approach.

The correct answer is (C) IV only.



16.3. Types of Reinsurance Audits

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Types of Reinsurance Audits?

I. ILLI reinsurance company (ILLI) has decided to complete an underwriting audit on Primary Insurance Company (PIC). The primary objective of an underwriting audit is to verify that PIC is ceding the correct policies to the treaty.

II. When ILLI reinsurance company (ILLI) audits Primary Insurance Company (PIC) to verify the accuracy of the premium, loss and commission data that PIC has reported to ILLI, it is most accurately referred to as a transactional audit.

III. A reinsurance audit that examines a primary insurer's coverage, pricing and risk selection decisions would be underwriting audits.

IV. Data is continuously reported to the reinsurer by the primary insurer. A reinsurance audit that examines premium, loss, and commission data would be a transactional audit.

V. When a reinsurer reviews and evaluates a primary insurer's general reserving practices this is done as part of a claim audit.

(A) I only
(B) II and IV only
(C) III and V only
(D) None of the above

Answer

The correct answer is (D) none of the above.



16.4. Managing General Agent Reinsurance Audits

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Managing General Agent Reinsurance Audits?

I. The general function of a managing general agent (MGA) is to manage a primary insurer's insurance activity in a specific area.

II. MGA agreements that offer incentives to earn commissions on policies regardless of profitability could be the most problematic in the reinsurance auditing.

III. When auditing a managing general agent (MGA), the reinsurance auditor should pay particular attention to the terms of the reinsurance agreement between the primary insurer and the reinsurer.

IV. ILLI Re is conducting a reinsurance audit of a primary insurer which relies heavily on a managing general agent (MGA). It plans to audit both the primary insurer and its MGA. In order to understand the authority that the primary insurer has delegated to the MGA, ILLI's auditors should review written contract between the MGA and the primary insurer.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) None of the above

Answer

(B) When auditing a managing general agent (MGA), the reinsurance auditor should pay particular attention to all of the following; the nature and scope of the MGA's authority; the nature of the relationship between the MGA and the primary insurer; the competency and financial strength of the MGA.

The correct answer is (B) III only.