17.1. State Insurance Regulation

Which of the following statements is not true regarding the State Insurance Regulation?

(A) A fundamental purpose of regulating reinsurers is to protect insurer solvency.

(B) A reinsurer that is authorized to do business in the primary insurer's state of domicile is called an authorized reinsurer.

(C) An insurer that a state insurance department has granted a license to sell insurance to is best referred to as an admitted insurer.

(D) An accredited reinsurer is is a reinsurer that has been evaluated, rated, and approved by the primary insurer's domestic state for the purpose of reinsurance collateral reduction.

Answer

(D) An accredited reinsurer is an insurer that is otherwise unauthorized to do business in the same state as the primary insurer but is granted approval to assume reinsurance by meeting the state insurance department's requirements. A certified reinsurer is a reinsurer that has been evaluated, rated, and approved by the primary insurer's domestic state for the purpose of reinsurance collateral reduction.

The correct answer is (D).



17.2. Financial Solvency Oversight

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Financial Solvency Oversight?

I. An NAIC association examination is sometimes also called zone examination.

II. When the NAIC develops a model law it provides a common basis for drafting state laws.

III. ILLI Reinsurance Company (ILLI) wishes to do business in a number of states. Each of the states requires that ILLI have an insolvency clause in its reinsurance agreement. This clause would require that ILLI respond even if the primary insurer becomes insolvent.

IV. To monitor insurer solvency, state insurance regulators employ a variety of financial regulatory tools that the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has developed. Off-site monitoring and analysis was established to develop and maintain standards to promote sound insurance company financial solvency regulation.

V. The Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) is a set of financial ratios developed by the NAIC. The primary purpose of using the IRIS ratios is to identify insurers in early stages of financial difficulty.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) V only

Answer

IV. The NAIC Accreditation program was established to develop and maintain standards to promote sound insurance company financial solvency regulation.

The correct answer is (C) IV only.





17.3. Regulatory Oversight of Reinsurance Transactions

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Regulatory Oversight of Reinsurance Transactions?

I. The mismatch between income and expenses under statutory accounting principles (SAP) is that full policy-related expenses are charged against the earned portion of premiums.

II. A key regulatory concern that regulators have regarding the use of reinsurance is the standards by which an insurer can take credit for reinsurance.

III. A primary insurance company, Sharing Insurance, has obtained reinsurance with unauthorized reinsurer, ILLI Re. For Sharing to have this reinsurance qualify for reinsurance accounting, ILLI must provide some form of collateral to Sharing.

IV. State insurance regulators have adopted requirements that must be met for a reinsurance agreement to be treated as a reinsurance transaction on an insurer's financial statements. Finite risk is the type of reinsurance agreement that these requirements were designed to address.

V. In 2011, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) revised the Credit for Reinsurance Model Law. They allow a reduction in collateral requirements for certified reinsurers.

(A) I only
(B) II and III only
(C) IV and V only
(D) None of the above

Answer

The correct answer is (D) none of the above.