18.1. NAIC Annual Statement Balance Sheet

Which of the following statements is not true regarding the NAIC Annual Statement Balance Sheet?

I. Examples of nonadmitted assets include agents' balances over ninety days past due and investment securities that are in default.

II. A primary insurer is exposed to both underwriting and investment risk. An investment risk that may cause the need for additional reinsurance protection would be a lack of asset liquidity.

III. Reinsurance payable on paid loss and loss adjustment expenses is a liability item of primary insurer on the NAIC Annual Statement of primary insurer.

IV. Funds held by or deposited with reinsured companies is a liability item of reinsurer on the NAIC Annual Statement of primary insurer.

V. A reinsurer is interested in a primary insurer's income statement because it is an indication of the trends of the insurer.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) III and IV only
(D) V only

Answer

III. Reinsurance payable on paid loss and loss adjustment expenses is the liability item of reinsurer on the NAIC Annual Statement of primary insurer.

IV. Funds held by or deposited with reinsured companies is an asset item of reinsurer on the NAIC Annual Statement of primary insurer.

The correct answer is (C) III and IV only.





18.2. Underwriting and Investment Exhibit

Which of the following statements is not true regarding the Underwriting and Investment Exhibit?

(A) The amount of net underwriting gain or loss is shown on the primary insurer's Statement of Income, included in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Annual Statement. On the Statement of Income, net investment income earned is one of the items subtracted from the primary insurer's premiums earned to reach the net underwriting gain or loss amount.

(B) Part 2 of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Underwriting and Investment Exhibit, which supports an insurer's Statement of Income, shows losses by type of insurance. Part 2 uses premium earned data from Part 1 to calculate the loss ratio for each type of insurance.

(C) Part 3 of the Underwriting and Investment Exhibit of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Annual Statement includes the allocation of expenses as supporting documentation to the Statement of Income. Part 3 allocates expenses by three major functional areas.

(D) An insurer's Statement of Income is included in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Annual Statement, and is supported by information contained in various parts of the Underwriting and Investment Exhibit. Premiums earned is included in Part 1 of the Underwriting and Investment Exhibit.

Answer

(A) On the Statement of Income, loss adjustment expenses incurred, for example, is one of the items subtracted from the primary insurer's premiums earned to reach the net underwriting gain or loss amount. Net investment income earned is not one of the items to reach the net underwriting gain or loss amount.

The correct answer is (A).



18.3. Schedule F

Which of the following statements is not true regarding the Schedule F?

(A) On Schedule F-Part 3 of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Annual Statement, Ceded balances payable to reinsurers is subtracted from the total recoverables due to the primary insurer to determine the net amount recoverable from reinsurers.

(B) Certified reinsurers are required to post collateral, which is recorded in Schedule F-Part 6 of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Annual Statement. Part 6 provides a provision for the calculation of reinsurer collateral deficiencies.

(C) A restatement of the balance sheet is found in Part 9 of Schedule F of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Annual Statement. The purpose of this restatement is to indicate the effectiveness of the primary insurer's reinsurance program.

(D) Provision for slow-paying reinsurer is 100% of recoverables owed less collateral provided, plus 20% of recoverables more than 90 days past due not in dispute, plus 20% of amounts in dispute, subject to a maximum of 100% of all recoverables.

Answer

(D) Provision for unauthorized reinsurer is 100% of recoverables owed less collateral provided, plus 20% of recoverables more than 90 days past due not in dispute, plus 20% of amounts in dispute, subject to a maximum of 100% of all recoverables. Provision for slow-paying reinsurer is 20% of total recoverables owed less collateral provided, plus the GREATER OF 20% of unsecured recoverables including amounts in dispute AND 20% of recoverables.

The correct answer is (D).





18.4. Schedule P

Which of the following statements is not true regarding the Schedule P?

(A) Schedule P of the NAIC Annual Statement shows detailed information on paid and reserved losses.

(B) A history and development of incurred net losses and defense and cost containment expenses is found in Schedule P - Part 2 of the NAIC Statement. It shows the amount of loss development during the past year and in the past two years.

(C) A history of cumulative net paid losses is provided in Schedule P-Part 3 of the NAIC Annual Statement. In addition, Part 3 of this Schedule also contains the number of claims closed.

(D) Schedule P-Part 4 of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Annual Statement includes a history of bulk and incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves. It provides a history and development of incurred net losses and defense and cost containment expenses.

Answer

(D) Part 2 provides a history and development of incurred net losses and defense and cost containment expenses. The data shown in Part 4 form a loss development triangle. The bulk and IBNR reserves for losses and expenses include reserves for incurred but not reported claims, reopened claims, and aggregate reserves on newly reported claims without specific case reserves.

The correct answer is (D).