19.1. Loss Reserves

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Loss Reserves?

(A) Incurred losses = paid losses + loss reserves + loss adjustment expense reserves.

(B) The purpose of loss reserves is to estimate the insurer's liability for losses that have occurred but have not yet been reported. 

(C) Incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves serve, in part, to account for future growth of known losses.

(D) Loss development is the increase or decrease of incurred losses over time.

Answer

(B) The purpose of loss reserves is to estimate the insurer's liability for losses that have occurred but have not yet been settled or paid.

The correct answer is (B)



19.2. Significance of Primary Insurer Reserves for the Reinsurer

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Significance of Primary Insurer Reserves for the Reinsurer?

I. When an insurer is under-reserved, its surplus is overstated.

II. When accounting for accident-year losses for year 20X6, a reserve change in 20X6 for a loss that occurred in 20X5 would be included.

III. If the primary insurer's loss reserves are understated, the reinsurance premiums may be inadequate for the loss exposures reinsured.

IV. A pro rata reinsurer usually follows the reserving practices of its primary insurer because the liability of pro rata reinsurance exists from the first dollar of loss.

V. Primary Insurance Company (PIC) has outstanding loss reserves at the end of the past year totaling 28 million. During the first quarter of this year PIC's reserves were reevaluated and were increased to 32 million. From this change, PIC’s policyholders' surplus will be reduced.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III and IV only
(D) V only

Answer

II. When accounting for accident-year losses for year 20X6, a reserve change in 20X7 for a loss that occurred in 20X6 would be included. The accident-year method uses the earned premium for the calendar period being reviewed, but calculates incurred losses for the given period using all losses and claims as a result of insured events occurring during that period. Since accident-year losses arise only from insured events that occur during the period, they are not impacted by changes in reserves for events that occurred in other periods.

The correct answer is (B) II only.





19.3. Methods for Establishing Case Reserves

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Methods for Establishing Case Reserves?

I. The tabular method of determining case loss reserves would most likely be used when setting the reserve for a structured settlement amount for a liability insurance claim.

II. The accuracy of the case reserves set using the judgment method depends on the quality of the claim representative's experience.

III. The case reserving method that establishes an average amount for all claims that have similar characteristics in terms of the claimant's age, health, and marital status is known as the tabular method.

IV. The average method of case reserving is most suitable for those types of insurance where claims are reported and paid promptly.

V. A drawback of the tabular method of determining case reserves is that it may produce inadequate reserves for those types of insurance that have a wide variation in claim amounts.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV and V only
(D) V only

Answer

V. A drawback of the average method of determining case reserves is that it may produce inadequate reserves for those types of insurance that have a wide variation in claim amounts.

The correct answer is (D) V only.





19.4. Methods for Establishing Bulk Reserves

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Methods for Establishing Bulk Reserves?

I. The loss ratio method of establishing bulk reserves for IBNR losses should only be used for the first year or two after losses are incurred.

II. The reserve for unallocated loss adjustment expenses (ULAE) is usually estimated as a percentage of the sum of incurred losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses.

III. Incurred but not reported (IBNR) losses include those losses that have occurred but have not yet been reported as well as a reserve for reported losses that are expected to develop further. Percentage method uses historical relationships between IBNR reserves and reported losses in IBNR forecasts.

IV. Incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves are residual reserves. They represent the difference between ultimate losses and unpaid incurred losses.

V. Assume an actuary estimates losses at 80 percent of earned premium of 20 million, and that 3 million in losses have been paid. The insurer wants to establish a bulk reserve for reported losses - payment uncertain. Based on the above information, the appropriate amount for the bulk reserve would be 13million.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) IV and V only

Answer

IV. Incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves are residual reserves. They represent the difference between ultimate losses and reported incurred losses.

The correct answer is (C) IV only.





19.5. Combined Methods of Loss Reserving

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Combined Methods of Loss Reserving?

I. The three-part combination method of setting loss reserves combines the loss ratio method, the loss triangle method, and case loss reserves.

II. A benefit of the use of the two-part combination method to estimate loss reserves is that it realizes the advantages of both the loss ratio method and the loss triangle method.

III. The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method of estimating loss reserves uses expected losses and IBNR factor.

IV. A weakness of the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method of determining loss reserves is that it can only be used when the losses reported to the insurer are sufficiently mature.

V. The three-part combination method of determining loss reserves places the greatest amount of weight in the earliest years on the loss ratio method.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) V only

Answer

IV. The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method is frequently used when the lossesreported to the insurer are not sufficiently mature to use the loss triangle method.

The correct answer is (C) IV only.







19.6. Difficulties When Applying Reserving Techniques

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Difficulties When Applying Reserving Techniques?

(A) Schedule P of the NAIC Annual Statement combines salvage and subrogation amounts into one category because both serve to reduce loss amounts.

(B) ABC Insurance Company paid a claim for a stolen vehicle. Two years later, the vehicle was recovered by authorities and returned to the possession of ABC. Paid losses in the year in which the salvage is received will be reduced.

(C) It is difficult for excess of loss reinsurers to select loss development factors when using the loss triangle method of reserve estimation.

(D) Excess of loss reinsurance reserves tend to arise from a relatively homogeneous set of primary insured losses.

Answer

(D) Problems of excess of loss reinsurance reserves arising from the lack of homogeneity can be overcome by dividing the data into homogeneous categories and constructing a separate triangle for each category.

The correct answer is (D).