6.1. General Reinsurance Placement Process

Which of the following statements is not true regarding General Reinsurance Placement Process?

I. Brokerage is the payment the reinsurance intermediary receives.

II. A direct writing reinsurer is usually to provide reinsurance program design service for primary insurers.

III. Reinsurance intermediaries do not require the same financial resources as direct writing reinsurers mainly because their transactions are heavily collateralized.

IV. Because the small, regional insurer is a new primary insurer, it would be more prone to use the intermediary reinsurance marketing system to be able to evaluate and compare different reinsurance options.

V. For the reason that large insurer is well-established, it is likely to have in place various reinsurance policies and to be familiar with the reinsurers in the market and their coverage. Therefore, it is likely to use a direct writer marketing system and negotiate terms and premium directly with reinsurers.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) IV and V only

Answer

III. Reinsurance intermediaries do not need the same financial resources as direct writing reinsurers because they assume no insurance risk.

The correct answer is (B) III only.





6.2. General Reinsurance Placement Process

Which of the following statements is not true regarding General Reinsurance Placement Process?

I. The nine-month rule, created by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), applies to the signing of reinsurance agreements.

II. In the United States, preagreement documentation has limited use in legally contested reinsurance issues because it is superceded by the final agreement.

III. Broker of record letter is a written authorization from a primary insurer to an intermediary, permitting them to negotiate a reinsurance agreement.

IV. When selecting between a direct writing and a broker marketing system for the purchase of reinsurance, a primary insurer should be aware of the differences between the two systems. A potential disadvantage of the broker marketing system compared to the direct writing system is less coverage secured.

V. The 2nd step in the reinsurance placement process is to develop a reinsurance agreement proposal. This step involves evaluating the primary insurer's reinsurance needs and the reinsurance market resources that can satisfy them.

(A) I and II only
(B) III and IV only
(C) IV only
(D) V only

Answer

IV. A potential drawback of the broker marketing system versus the direct writing system is the chance of communication misunderstandings. A potential advantage of a broker marketing system for reinsurance over the direct writing system is the broker's bargaining leverage can capture better terms and conditions.

The correct answer is (C) IV only.





7.1. Facultative Reinsurance Placement Process through Direct Writing

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Facultative Reinsurance Placement Process through Direct Writing?

I. A facultative reinsurance certificate is the ultimate, legal contract that specifies all reinsurance terms, conditions, exclusions, and ceding commission if applicable.

II. A primary insurer, which needs facultative reinsurance to support a policy it intends to issue, obtains a binder, which is a temporary reinsurance agreement subject to an acceptable primary policy review.

III. A pro rata facultative reinsurance certificate states the limit as dollar amount excess of the primary insurer's retention.

IV. An excess of loss facultative certificate offering 1,000,000 reinsurance coverage over a 500,000 retention is stated as 1,000,000 xs of 500,000.

V. Sony Re receives a proposal to reinsure the property loss exposures of a large retirement house. While gathering information about the retirement house, Sony Re's underwriter discovers that the same loss exposure was recently marketed to an underwriter in another Sony Re office. The process used by the underwriter to discover the conflict is called Clearance.

(A) I only
(B) II and III only
(C) III only
(D) IV and V only



Answer

III. A pro rata facultative reinsurance certificate states the limit as percentage of the primary insurer's limit. A pro rata facultative certificate stated as 500,000 part of 2,000,000 is the same as 25 percent of 2,000,000.

The correct answer is (C) III only.



7.2. Treaty Reinsurance Placement Process through Broker

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Treaty Reinsurance Placement Process through Broker?

I. The ceding commission is, basically, prices of pro rata treaties.

II. Probably the most frequently negotiated treaty term in a reinsurance proposal is the price for the coverage.

III. A limits profile categorizes the primary insurer's policies into ranges to assist the reinsurer understand the loss exposures subject to the treaty.

IV. The number of years of loss history that ought to be provided in the proposal depends on the type of policies being reinsured and the stability of the loss ratio.

V. The loss information contained in the reinsurance proposal should indicate whether the amounts shown are ground-up losses or net of reinsurance recoveries.

(A) I only
(B) II and III only
(C) IV and V only
(D) None of the above

Answer

The correct answer is (D) none of the above.