8.1. Common Reinsurance Treaty Clauses

Which of the following statements is true regarding Common Reinsurance Treaty Clauses?

I. Risks attaching basis covers policies issued or renewed by the primary insurer on or after the reinsurance treaty's effective date.

II. In-force policies basis covers the unearned part of policies in force and also policies issued or renewed by the primary insurer on or after the reinsurance treaty's effective date.

III. Preamble determines the obligatory nature of cessions under a reinsurance treaty.

IV. The federal excise tax clause makes the primary insurer responsible for remitting the tax.

V. The access to records clause in a reinsurance treaty gives the primary insurer the right to inspect records of the reinsurer pertaining to the reinsurance treaty.

(A) I and III only
(B) I and IV only
(C) II and IV only
(D) II and V only

Answer

II. Losses occurring basis covers the unearned portion of policies in force as well as policies issued or renewed by the primary insurer on or after the reinsurance treaty's effective date.

III. Reinsuring clause establishes the obligatory nature of cessions under a reinsurance treaty.

V. The access to records clause in a reinsurance treaty gives the reinsurer the right to inspect records of the primary insurer pertaining to the reinsurance treaty.

The correct answer is (B) I and IV only.





8.2. Common Reinsurance Treaty Clauses

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Common Reinsurance Treaty Clauses?

I. The errors and omissions clause provides treaty coverage to errors and omissions exposures.

II. The arbitration clause requires that the arbitration panel comprise of judges who have a background in international insurance law.

III. The intent of the Governing Law Clause in a reinsurance contract is to specify the legal jurisdiction where disputes are to be decided.

IV. The offset clause in a reinsurance treaty permits both the primary insurer and the reinsurer to adjust amounts due to each other so that only the net balance changes hands.

V. Within a reinsurance contract, the exchange rate to be used for converting reinsurance payments from British pounds to American dollars would be described in the currency clause.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) IV and V only

Answer
I. The errors and omissions clause enforces the parties' obligations in the event of inadvertent errors or omissions.

II. Arbitrators' qualifications: the arbitrators must be active or retired executives of insurers or reinsurers and be disinterested in the arbitration process. The key reasons why arbitrators must be executives is that usually, a person has not actively participated in reinsurance treaty negotiations and practices until reaching a senior officer level.

The correct answer is (A) I and II only.



8.3. Common Reinsurance Treaty Clauses

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Common Reinsurance Treaty Clauses?

I. According to intermediary clauses the reinsurer assumes credit risk for the funds transferred from the primary insurer to the reinsurer through a reinsurance intermediary.

II. In case a service of suit clause is not included with a reinsurance treaty written by an international reinsurer that is not licensed or otherwise authorized to sell reinsurance in the United States, the primary insurer would be forced to bring suit in the reinsurer's home country.

III. To prevent financial statement penalties, primary insurers ceding to certified reinsurers must have funding clauses in their reinsurance agreements that require security by the reinsurers in amounts appropriate to their rating.

IV. Collateral requirements can be adjusted for unauthorized reinsurers that meet certain qualifications and are approved by the state insurance regulator of the ceding company's state of domicile. Those reinsurers are referred to as authorized reinsurers.

V. A primary insurer transfers funds to a reinsurance intermediary for premiums it owes a reinsurer. The intermediary then declares bankruptcy without transferring the funds to the reinsurer. Under the intermediary clause, the primary insurer becomes a general creditor of the intermediary.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) IV and V only

Answer

IV. Those reinsurers are classified as certified reinsurers.

V. In this case, the primary insurer would not need to pay the reinsurer for any lost premiums.

The correct answer is (D) IV and V only.





8.4. Common Reinsurance Treaty Clauses

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Common Reinsurance Treaty Clauses?

(A) A reinsurer writes a 4,000,000 xs 1,000,000 reinsurance treaty with an insolvency clause. The primary insurer turned out to be insolvent, and the liquidator paid 2,000,000 of a 4,000,000 loss that is covered by the reinsurance treaty. The reinsurer would be obligated to pay 2 million of the loss.

(B) Mutual Insurer carries a 200,000 xs 100,000 treaty with Reinsurer. Mutual is insolvent, and the liquidator settled a 450,000 case for 400,000. The reinsurance treaty includes an insolvency clause, 200,000 is recoverable from Reinsurer.

(C) ILLI Insurer has a 500,000 xs 100,000 treaty with Reinsurer. ILLI is insolvent, and the liquidator settled a 250,000 case for 200,000. In case the reinsurance treaty contains an insolvency clause, 150,000 is recoverable from Reinsurer.

(D) The interests and liabilities agreement establishes several liability for the reinsurers participating in a treaty. Furthermore this agreement is not needed when only one reinsurer is involved.

Answer

(A) The reinsurer would be obligated to pay 3 million of the loss. The reinsurer must pay claims allowed against the insolvent primary insurer "without diminution." The liquidator of an insolvent primary insurer will demand full payment from a reinsurer despite the primary insurer's inability to pay all or part of an underlying claim.

The correct answer is (A).