9.1. Other Common Treaty Clauses

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Other Common Treaty Clauses?

I. Adding the excess of policy limits (XPL) clause to a treaty treats the original loss and the XPL loss as one loss.

II. The purpose of the self-insured obligations clause is to cover the policies issued by the primary insurer for its own loss exposures.

III. Reinsurance treaties with a termination provision on a run-off basis allow all policies in force to expire while remaining reinsured.

IV. Reinsurance treaties with a termination provision on a cut-off basis allow the reinsurer's responsibility for losses to end at the treaty's termination date.

V. A reinsurance treaty could be contractually cancelled by direction of a state insurance regulator

(A) I only
(B) II and III only
(C) IV only
(D) V only

Answer

V. A reinsurance treaty could be contractually cancelled by; formal notice of cancellation; non payment of balances; sudden death provision. But not by direction of a state insurance regulator.

The correct answer is (D) V only.





9.2. Other Common Treaty Clauses

Which of the following statements is true regarding Other Common Treaty Clauses?

I. One of the reasons for immediate termination often included in sudden death provisions is nonpayment of balances.

II. The special termination clause provides either the primary insurer or the reinsurer the option of terminating the agreement in specific instances.

III. A primary insurer negotiates a reinsurance treaty that can be canceled by either party with 90 days notice at the end of each quarter. This is an example of a continuous contract.

IV. The excess of policy limits clause requires the primary insurer to settle all losses on reinsured policies within the limits of the policies.

(A) I only
(B) II and III only
(C) IV only
(D) All of the above

Answer

I. The reasons for immediate termination often included in sudden death provisions are: change in the primary insurer's ownership; reduction of the primary insurer's net retention; reduction in the primary insurer's policyholders' surplus.

IV. The excess of policy limits clause requires the reinsurer to indemnify the primary insurer for losses in excess of policy limits.

The correct answer is (B) II and III only.





9.3. Ancillary Agreements and Endorsements
Which of the following statements is not true regarding Ancillary Agreements and Endorsements?

I. An ancillary agreement in a reinsurance treaty that provides a means to extend reinsurance coverage to include polices that would otherwise be excluded is known as a special acceptance agreement.

II. An endorsement attached to an insurance policy covering mortgaged property that gives the insured a direct cause of action against the reinsurer for the full amount of the loss regardless of how much was reinsured, if the primary insurer defaults, is known as a cut-through endorsement.

III. ABC Retail, Inc. is insured with XYZ Insurance Company. XYZ is reinsured under a treaty reinsurance agreement. In the event that XYZ becomes insolvent, a cut-through endorsement will allow reinsurance proceeds to be paid directly to ABC.

IV. The ILLI Reinsurance Company is one of a group of five reinsurers providing reinsurance for a large mortgaged property. ILLI is the named guarantor under a guaranty endorsement that applies to the primary insurance policy. To ensure that all reinsurers contribute their proportionate share of liabilities assumed under the endorsement, indemnity agreement should be executed by the co-reinsurers.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III and IV only
(D) None of the above

Answer

II. A guarantee endorsement differs from a cut-through endorsement in that a guarantee endorsement allows the insured to recover the entire covered loss.

The correct answer is (B) II only.