10.1. Quota Share Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Quota Share Treaties?

(A) A quota share treaty is most effective in providing surplus relief.

(B) Quota share reinsurance may be less effective in increasing large line capacity than other types of reinsurance because the primary insurer's liability increases as the amounts of insurance provided increase.

(C) When the quota share treaty enables a small insurer to compete for business with amounts of insurance that are greater than its policyholders' surplus could otherwise support, the function that it is providing is large line capacity.

(D) Primary Insurer has a 75 percent quota share treaty with one reinsurer and a 3,000,000 xs 2,000,000 excess of loss treaty with another. If the quota share treaty is provided on a gross account basis, Primary Insurer recovers 2,250,000 from the quota share reinsurer on a 6,000,000 loss.

Answer

(D) If the quota share treaty is provided on a gross account basis, Primary Insurer recovers 4,500,000 from the quota share reinsurer on a 6,000,000 loss.

The correct answer is (D).





10.2. Common Clauses Modified for Use in Quota Share Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Common Clauses Modified for Use in Quota Share Treaties?

I. Reinsuring clauses in a quota share reinsurance treaty describes the policies covered and identifies the basis of attachment.

II. Language obligating a quota share reinsurer to pay losses until the first anniversary or cancellation of each policy, up to a maximum of twelve months after the treaty's termination, would be found in reinsuring clauses.

III. A primary insurer may not want to delay recovery of the reinsurer's share of a loss until the next payment period, particularly when that share of the loss is large. Therefore, the reports and remittances clause may have a provision allowing the primary insurer to expedite the payment. This provision is known as a cash call.

IV. Quota share reinsurance treaties are sometimes written with provisions that allow immediate termination due to poor loss experience. If this provision is put into effect, the reinsurer returns the unearned premium reserve to the insurer.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III and IV only
(D) None of the above

Answer

II. Language obligating a quota share reinsurer to pay losses until the first anniversary or cancellation of each policy, up to a maximum of twelve months after the treaty's termination, would be found in commencement and termination

The correct answer is (B) II only.





10.3. Clauses Designed or Adapted for Quota Share Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Clauses Designed or Adapted for Quota Share Treaties?

I. The purpose of the outside reinsurance clause added to a quota share treaty is to allow the primary insurer to secure other reinsurance under certain circumstances.

II. A reinsurer requires that the primary insurer add a pollution endorsement to every policy covered by a quota share treaty. This requirement is usually contained in a warranties clause.

III. The original conditions clause specifies that additional reinsurance, facultative or treaty, applies before the application of this reinsurance agreement.

IV. A primary insurer moves its quota share reinsurance treaty from one reinsurer to another. The incoming reinsurer demands that the primary insurer pay it the unearned premium reserve within 60 days of treaty inception, whereas the terminated reinsurer refuses to return the unearned premium to the primary insurer within the 60-day period. Portfolio transfer clause requires the primary insurer to pay the incoming reinsurer the unearned premium within the 60 days even though it has not received payment from the outgoing reinsurer.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV only
(D) None of the above

Answer

III. The original conditions clause establishes that the liability assumed by the reinsurer under the reinsurance treaty is on the same basis as the underlying coverage provided by the primary insurer. The original conditions clause states the reinsurer's share of the underlying premium, net of ceding commission, will not be reduced by dividends (if any) paid by the primary insurer to the underlying insured. The original conditions clause addresses dividends specifically because many primary insurers have dividend plans that enable the policyholder to share in profits which potentially diminish the amount of subject premium.

The correct answer is (B) III only.





10.4. Quota Share Treaty Pricing

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Quota Share Treaty Pricing?

I. An insurer and reinsurer enter into a 75 percent quota share treaty. The treaty provides for ceding and profit-sharing commissions. The insurer estimates 16,000,000 in premium subject to the treaty. The ceding commission is 20 percent and the profit-sharing commission is 50 percent. The reinsurer projects 10 percent for costs and minimum profit and 60 percent for loss and loss adjustment expenses. Based on the information given, the estimated amount of the insurer's profit-sharing commission would be 600,000.

II. Reinsurer and Primary Insurer agree to share the profit-sharing commission equally under a quota share treaty because the underlying insurance is found to be profitable with little catastrophe exposure. ① Estimated quota share premium: 2,000,000 ② Reinsurer's costs and desired profit: 7% ③ Flat ceding commission to Primary: 20% ④ Estimated average losses and loss adjustment expenses: 63%. Using the information, the amount of the estimated profit-sharing commission would be 100,000.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) None of the above
(D) All of the above

Answer

Calculations refer to 10.i. Example: Calculating a Quota Share Profit-Sharing Ceding Commission.
The correct answer is (C) none of the above.





10.5. Quota Share Treaty Pricing

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Quota Share Treaty Pricing?

I. A reinsurer has provided a primary insurer with a 70 percent quota share treaty containing a profit-sharing provision. The reinsurer determines items as a percentage of the quota share treaty as: ① Overhead 4.0% ② Brokerage paid to intermediary 1.5% ③ Investment income offset (4.5%) ④ Minimum profit 5.0%. Assuming a subject premium of 10 million, the estimated reinsurer costs and minimum profit would be 420,000.

II. Reinsurer must determine its costs and minimum profit as part of the process to arrive at a profit-sharing ceding commission. Reinsurer's overhead and brokerage total 5.5%, which is offset with its investment income percentage of 3.5%. Reinsurer also desires a minimum profit of 5%. The estimated quota share premium for this transaction is 2 million. The dollar amount of Reinsurer's costs and minimum profit totals 140,000.

III. The estimated quota share reinsurance premium for a treaty that includes a profit-sharing component is 2 million. The expected loss and loss adjustment expense ratio is 65%. The flat ceding commission to the primary insurer is 20%, and the reinsurer's expected costs and minimum profit is 5%. Using this information, the estimated average loss and loss adjustment expense would be 1,300,000.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III only
(D) None of the above

Answer

Calculations refer to 10.i. Example: Calculating a Quota Share Profit-Sharing Ceding Commission.

The correct answer is (D) none of the above.





10.6. Evaluating a Quota Share Treaty

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Evaluating a Quota Share Treaty?

I. CDE Insurance purchases a 60 percent quota share treaty for which subject written premiums are 25,000,000 and subject earned premiums are 20,000,000. The provisional ceding commission is 30 percent. The surplus relief effect of the quota share treaty would be 900,000.

II. ILLI Re wrote a reinsurance treaty that has 30 million in earned premium ceded to the treaty. The treaty has 18 million in incurred losses. When calculating the premium, ILLI Re added a 10 percent expense loading. The ceding commission is 20 percent. ILLI Re's historical underwriting profit margin would be 10%.

III. Based on the data: ① Ceded earned premiums:  10.0 million ② Ceded incurred losses: 5.0 million ③ Ceded commission: 25% ④ General expense loading: 5%. the reinsurer's profit margin is 0.2.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III only
(D) None of the above

Answer

Calculations refer to 10.k. Example: Evaluating a Quota Share Treaty

The correct answer is (D) none of the above.