11.1. Surplus Share Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Surplus Share Treaties?

(A) A surplus share treaty is often used for large, complex property loss exposures.

(B) A surplus share treaty could apply over a quota share treaty.

(C) The primary reason for using a surplus share treaty rather than a quota share treaty is that the cession percentage is variable for each risk under the treaty allowing automatic insurance capacity on large risks.

(D) The reason surplus share reinsurance is said to provide the primary insurer with automatic capacity is that it increases surplus so that capacity is increased as necessary.

Answer

(D) The reason surplus share reinsurance is said to provide the primary insurer with automatic capacity is that it adjusts underwriting capacity based on the relevant attributes of the exposure.

The correct answer is (D).





11.2. Common Clauses Modified for Use in Surplus Share Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Common Clauses Modified for Use in Surplus Share Treaties?

I. The nature of cession in the reinsuring clause in a surplus share treaty states that indemnification is subject to the limits set forth in the retention and limits clause.

II. The liability amount ceded to a reinsurer under a surplus share treaty is known as surplus cession

III. Three definitions are key to a surplus share treaty. They are the definitions of surplus liability, risk, and limits.

IV. Reinsurance treaties contain a reports and remittances clause. The main difference in this clause between the surplus share treaty and the quota share treaty is that for the surplus share treaty, the clause specifies that the primary insurer must record the net retention and cession amount for each exposure on the bordereau.

(A) I only
(B) II and III only
(C) IV only
(D) I and IV only

Answer

II. The liability amount ceded to a reinsurer under a surplus share treaty is known as surplus liability

III. Three definitions are key to a surplus share treaty. They are the definitions of surplus liability, risk, and net retention.

The correct answer is (B) II and III only.



11.3. Clauses Designed or Adapted for Surplus Share Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Clauses Designed or Adapted for Surplus Share Treaties?

I. The net retention clause is designed for surplus share treaties and usually states whether or not the primary insurer is permitted to use underlying reinsurance to further reinsure its net retention.

II. One purpose of the method of cession clause in a surplus share treaty is to allow the primary insurer to adjust the percentage ceded for coverage sublimits to the reinsurer's detriment.

III. Primary insurers entering into surplus share treaties are sometimes not permitted to use underlying reinsurance. When this restrictive wording is included as a separate clause, it is referred to as the net retention clause.

IV. Retention and limits clause limits the amount of the liability that the primary insurer can transfer to the reinsurer and establishes the primary insurer's minimum net retention.

V. Primary Insurer's underwriter is writing a 1 million commercial property policy with a 100,000 earthquake coverage sublimit. Primary's retention under the line guide is 20 percent for this policy, but the underwriter wants to cede more than 20% of the earthquake exposure to the reinsurer. Method of cession clauses in the surplus share treaty should the underwriter review to determine whether or not she is permitted to do so.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III and IV only
(D) V only

Answer

II. One purpose of the method of cession clause is to reduce adverse selection by specifying how loss exposures are ceded to the treaty. The method of cession clause states that the primary insurer can adjust the percentage ceded for coverage sublimits, but not to the reinsurer's detriment.

The correct answer is (B) II only.



11.4. Surplus Share Treaty Pricing

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Surplus Share Treaty Pricing?

(A) The amount of ceding commission that a reinsurer is willing to pay is based on the treaty's limits

(B) A limits profile is a table in which policies subject to a treaty have been categorized by coverage limits.

(C) A limits profile is used to aid primary insurers and reinsurers in determining the financial effects of a surplus share treaty with the retention set at various levels.

(D) The primary insurer's property reinsurance program typically is based on line guide information. Property line guides reflect the building construction, occupancy, and public protection classifications of buildings. With regard to building construction classifications, there are three essential classifications. They are load-bearing exterior wall material, material in the roof and floors, and the type of occupancy of the building.

Answer

(D) They are load-bearing exterior wall material, material in the roof and floors, and fire-resistive rating of the building materials used.

The correct answer is (D).