12.1. Property Per Risk Excess of Loss Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Property Per Risk Excess of Loss Treaties?

I. Main function of property per risk excess of loss reinsurance is to increase large line capacity.

II. The reason a property per risk excess of loss treaty would not be adequate for catastrophe protection is that the limits provided would generally not be adequate for a catastrophe.

III. Property per risk excess of loss reinsurance may be preferred over surplus share reinsurance because it requires less administrative work.

IV. Primary insurers need stable profits if they are to grow. Property excess of loss reinsurance treaties stabilize underwriting results because the primary insurer's loss is limited to the retention under the per risk treaty.

V. ILLI Insurance Company has written a large property risk with a limit on the building and contents of 10 million. It has an excess of loss reinsurance treaty with an attachment point of 2 million with a 3 million limit. The building suffered a 7 million fire loss. ILLI would have to retain net 4million for 7million loss.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III only
(D) IV and V only

Answer

II. The reason a property per risk excess of loss treaty would not be adequate for catastrophe protection is that reinsurance protection would not be triggered for many multiple smaller losses.

The correct answer is (B) II only.



12.2. Clauses Designed or Adapted for Property Per Risk Excess of Loss Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Clauses Designed or Adapted for Property Per Risk Excess of Loss Treaties?

I. Under a property per risk excess of loss treaty the retention and limits clause specifies the ultimate net loss that will be paid by the primary insurer when a loss occurs.

II. The retention and limits clause may be modified with a "definition of one risk" provision. This provision will clarify the risk that the retention applies to.

III. The loss notices and settlements clause in a property per risk excess of loss reinsurance treaty requires the primary insurer to notify the reinsurer of any loss amount that exceeds or is likely to exceed the primary insurer's retention. A reason for this notice requirement is that the reinsurer is responsible for adjusting and settling losses that exceed the primary insurer's retention.

IV. If the retention and limits clause contains an annual aggregate deductible, losses between the attachment point and the reinsurance limit are aggregated and apply to the aggregate deductible.

V. In a property excess of loss reinsurance treaty, the pools, associations, and syndicates exclusion clause excludes from coverage any liability emanating from the primary insurer's participation, directly or indirectly, in pools, associations, and syndicates. The reasons for this exclusion is to control the reinsurer's accumulation of liabilities from participation in pools

(A) I and II only
(B) I and III only
(C) IV only
(D) V only

Answer

I. Under a property per risk excess of loss treaty the retention and limits clause specifies that the retention and limit will apply to any one risk for each loss occurrence.

III. A reason for this notice requirement is that the reinsurer is responsible for all or most of the loss amounts above the retention. The primary insurer is responsible for adjusting and settling losses even if the losses exceed the primary insurer's retention.

The correct answer is (B) I and III only.



12.3. Property Per Risk Excess of Loss Treaty Pricing

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Property Per Risk Excess of Loss Treaty Pricing?

I. Property per risk excess of loss treaty pricing that considers the amount of liability inherent in the type of business covered by the treaty being priced is exposure rating.

II. In addition to analyzing past losses, the cost of reinsurance should be a significant consideration when setting reinsurance retentions.

III. Price per million pricing methods is used for per risk excess of loss treaties, when the underlying premium developed from policies that exceed the attachment point is so small that other methods do not work well.

IV. In addition to exposure rating, reinsurers use experience rating to price property per risk excess of loss treaties. Trending losses is a part of the experience rating process.

(A) I only
(B) II and III only
(C) IV only
(D) None of the above

Answer

The correct answer is (D) none of the above.