13.1. Casualty Excess of Loss Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Casualty Excess of Loss Treaties?

(A) One function of a casualty excess of loss treaty is to stabilize loss experience. This function protects the insurer from multiple losses.

(B) When a casualty excess of loss treaty provides increased large line capacity, it results in the primary insurer being able to issue policies with larger limits.

(C) Clash cover protects primary insurers from the consequences of single occurrences causing multiple losses under one or several policies.

(D) The underlying differences between liability and first-party property losses cause the pricing and treaty clauses to vary significantly between casualty excess of loss treaties and property per risk excess of loss treaties. One of these differences is that liability losses often take more time to manifest and settle.

Answer

(A) This function aids financial planning and supports growth.

The correct answer is (A).



13.2. Common Clauses Modified for Use in Casualty Excess of Loss Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Common Clauses Modified for Use in Casualty Excess of Loss Treaties?

(A) The reinsuring clause in a casualty excess of loss treaty specifies what types of insurance are covered under the treaty.

(B) Modification needed to the definition clause in a casualty excess of loss treaty for a workers compensation occupational disease exposure is that whether all losses proceeding from or traceable to the same causation during the policy term will be considered one occurrence.

(C) Disputes over the determination of an occurrence have led to the addition of a specific definition in the casualty excess of loss reinsurance treaty.

(D) An extended reporting period is used with claims-made policies to provide coverage for covered claims first made after the expiration of the policy.

Answer

(B) Modification needed to the definition clause in a casualty excess of loss treaty for a workers compensation occupational disease exposure is that whether the loss for each affected person from the same occupational exposure will be considered one occurrence.

The correct answer is (B).





13.3. Clauses Designed or Adapted for Casualty Excess of Loss Treaties

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Clauses Designed or Adapted for Casualty Excess of Loss Treaties?

I. A casualty reinsurance treaty clause that limits the time after the treaty's expiration during which occurrences can be reported to the reinsurer is generally referred to sunset clause.

II. A clause in the casualty excess of loss treaty that restores the treaty's per occurrence limit after a loss is best referred to as the reinstatement clause.

III. The declaratory judgment expense clause in the typical casualty excess of loss treaty provides that the primary insurer's legal expense for this legal action to have the court enforce the contract in question.

IV. The claims and loss adjustment expense clause in a casualty excess of loss reinsurance treaty generally provides that the reinsurer is bound to the primary insurer's claim settlements.

V. ILLI Reinsurer provides a casualty excess of loss treaty and has recently approached Primary Insurer, Sharing with a offer to close out all open liability claims under the treaty for one lump sum of money even though the claims have not fully developed. Under the commutation clause in the treaty would ILLI be relying in this attempt at this settlement with Sharing.

(A) I and II only
(B) III only
(C) IV and V only
(D) None of the above

Answer

III. The declaratory judgment expense clause in the typical casualty excess of loss treaty provides that the primary insurer's legal expense for this legal action asking the court to declare the rights of the parties under the insurance policy

The correct answer is (B) III only.





13.4. Casualty Excess of Loss Treaty Pricing

Which of the following statements is not true regarding Casualty Excess of Loss Treaty Pricing?

I. Experience rating is a method of pricing excess of loss reinsurance treaties that has as a goal to determine a loss cost rate for a future period that is based on actual past losses and the related subject premiums.

II. In the development of casualty excess of loss reinsurance rates, analysts use loss development triangles to estimate the ultimate value of losses. To develop data for periods beyond that which is available, analysts use a factor called a trend factor.

III. The exposure rating approach to casualty excess of loss reinsurance treaty pricing considers the amount of liability inherent in the type of business covered by the treaty being priced.

IV. A casualty excess of loss treaty may provide reinsurance for an accumulation of net retentions resulting from a single occurrence that affects multiple insureds and multiple types of insurance. An adjustment to the treaty rate is made to provide coverage for this exposure, which is referred to as
clash cover.

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III and IV only
(D) None of the above

Answer

II. To develop data for periods beyond that which is available, analysts use a factor called a tail factor.

The correct answer is (B) II only.

