1. The major difference between social network analysis and other fields of data analysis is that

   A. Social network analysis yields more precise numerical results than the results obtained in other fields of data analysis.
   B. Social network analysis provides predictions of future events and relationships while other fields of data analysis lack predictive power.
   C. Social network analysis requires less precision with regard to the input variables, but yields more precise outputs than other fields of data analysis.
   D. Social network analysis focuses on how data points relate to each other while other fields of data analysis focus on the attributes of each data point.



2. Accuracy, precision, F-score, and recall are evaluation methods for predictive models. Of these methods, the one that is popular because it takes into account two of the other evaluation methods is

   A. F-score.
   B. Recall.
   C. Accuracy.
   D. Precision.



3. The vice president of claims at Insurance Company (IC) would like to use text mining to examine claim files in which a claim was determined to be fraudulent. An initial scan using "fraud" and "fraudulent claim" produced unsatisfactory results as claims where fraud was merely suspected were also flagged. She decided to conduct a second scan using "charges filed" as the keywords. The results were much better, as only those claims in which prosecutors charged someone with fraud were included in the results of the search. This measure of a word's rarity within the corpus of documents scanned is known as its

   A. Inverse document frequency.
   B. Stemming value.
   C. Confusion matrix.
   D. Sentiment.

   

4. An exclusive agent for Big City Insurance Company (Big City) is being investigated for illegal discriminatory practices. An announcement yesterday by the insurance commissioner to local media was the first time Big City heard of the issue. Its risk manager is concerned with reputation risk. She has mined news articles and social media posts for any mention of the controversy. Next, she should perform

   A. Logistic regression.
   B. Sentiment analysis.
   C. Regression analysis.
   D. Link prediction.



5. Generalization refers to

   A. A model that is too complex.
   B. The random peculiarity of training data applied to a predictive model.
   C. The ability of a predictive model to apply itself outside of training data.
   D. A model that is too simple.



6. A robust, comprehensive, data management initiative provides several benefits for an organization.  One benefit is elimination of data redundancy and reduced duplication of effort by employees.  This benefit of data management is
   A. Enhanced on-demand access to data.
   B. Improved data accuracy.
   C. Improved decision-making.
   D. Increased overall efficiency.



7. Three Hills Insurance Company was concerned that it was not optimizing the value of internal and external data available to the company.  Three Hills Insurance Company hired Randy Ehrisman, the vice president of a data analytics consulting firm, and named him Vice President of Technology.  After two months with the company, Randy organized a cross-sectional team at Three Hills Insurance Company.  The team was charged with ensuring the confidentiality, usability, security, compliance, quality, and availability of data.  The team is to accomplish this charge by defining data standards, policies, and procedures for processing and storing data.  The cross-sectional team Randy organized is a(n)
   A. Board of director's technology committee.
   B. Data governance committee.
   C. Board of director's data analytics committee.
   D. Information technology committee.



8. In business process management (BPM), process mining is best described as
   A. The use of a systematic, iterative plan to analyze and improve business processes through life-cycle phases to achieve long-term goals and client satisfaction.
   B. The use of a data diagram showing processes and average time elapsed before every process instance.
   C. The use of exploratory data analysis for insights about a business process and to identify potential improvements.
   D. The use of data analysis to identify the activities involved in a current process.



9. Indemnity Insurance Company (IIC) is a growing auto insurer that has had a run of fraudulent claims recently. IIC does not believe that it has detected all of them. IIC has decided to invest in data mining and predictive modeling as a solution. Its actions will include applying cluster analysis, which can best be described as
   A. Examining links and suspicious connections.
   B. Finding claims fraud through word-of-mouth detection.
   C. Detecting fraud by mining social media data.
   D. Discovering claims characteristics that might indicate fraud.



10. Which one of the following groups names two data mining techniques used to explore data to make discoveries?
    A. Classification and regression analysis
    B. Association rule learning and cluster analysis
    C. Classification and cluster analysis
    D. Association rule learning and regression analysis



11. The underwriters at InsureCo know that Jeb's Laundry, an insured, is a good risk. They are wondering whether a similar company that has applied for coverage, Betty's Laundry, is also a good risk. A method of evaluation would be to, on a graph, plot data points that numerically represent two attributes of Jeb's Laundry. Next, plot a numerical representation of those same attributes for Betty's Laundry. Then, to obtain a measurement that will represent the similarity between the two companies,
    A. Calculate the length of the horizontal side of the right triangle that is formed.
    B. Calculate the length of the hypotenuse of the right triangle that is formed.
    C. Calculate the area of the right triangle that is formed.
    D. Calculate the length of the vertical side of the right triangle that is formed.



12. Which one of the following forms of technology is replacing the standard bar code as a supply chain management tool?
    A. Drones
    B. Lidar
    C. Radio frequency identification
    D. Telematics



13. Rural Insurance Company (RIC) has been accused by a consumer advocacy group of charging excessive premiums to farmers. RIC's risk manager has mined social media for mentions of the controversy. One post read, "I love Rural Insurance Company's sales agents. The allegations are troubling." The sentiment score for the post is
    A. -1
    B. 0
    C. 1
    D. 2



14. To calculate tree-based probabilities,
    A. Divide the number of times the model correctly predicted the value of the root node by the number of total predictions for each class at each leaf node.
    B. Divide the number of times the model correctly predicted the value of the target variable by the number of total predictions for each class at each leaf node.
    C. Divide the number of times the model correctly predicted the value of the target variable by the number of total predictions for each class at each root node.
    D. Divide the number of times the model correctly predicted the value of the probable target by the number of total predictions for each class at each root node.



15. In model performance evaluation, the percentage of positive predictions made by the model divided by the percentage of positive predictions that would be expected by chance is called
    A. Leverage.
    B. Entropy.
    C. Information gain.
    D. Lift.



16. Employees at Galliano Insurance received a strange message when they attempted to log on to their computers one Monday morning.  The message said "We are In Control -- Contact the IT Department for Details."  Employees were unable to log on to the Galliano network.  Conner, the Vice President of Technology, received a different message.  It said, "Your system has been taken over by the Phantoms.  We'll unlock the system in exchange for 250,000."  An e-mail address was provided where Conner could reply to the Phantoms.  The malware planted on the Galliano Insurance network denying access unless a payment is made is called
    A. Spam. 
    B. Ransomware. 
    C. Spyware. 
    D. Phish. 



17. Insurance and risk management professionals must understand their customers and their risks to best serve them. The process of foreseeing who will be friends or what someone will like is most specifically called
    A. Network analysis.
    B. Link prediction.
    C. Social network analysis.
    D. Sentiment analysis.



18. Which one of the following is the important first step in the model for data-driven decision making in risk management and insurance?
    A. Prepare the appropriate data
    B. Select the analytical technique
    C. Assure the quality of data
    D. Define the problem clearly



19. One method of conducting a SWOT analysis is through a group activity that involves an organization's managers and is organized by a facilitator. In one activity, weaknesses that can be paired with threats are designated in an ordered list for potential action to minimize consequences that entail high risk. This activity is called
    A. Refining.
    B. Brainstorming.
    C. Processing.
    D. Prioritizing.



20. When using a classification tree technique to develop a predictive model based on the attributes of complex claims, a terminal node that is used to classify an instance based on its attributes is called 
    A. Training node.
    B. Root node.
    C. Combination of nodes.
    D. Leaf node.



21. Insurance Company (IC) seeks to better understand its loss exposure related to wildfires in its homeowners line of business. IC hopes to lower its loss ratio by making better underwriting decisions. IC plans to identify loss ratio segments by utilizing machine learning to discover relationships among relevant data attributes, including new, nontraditional attributes. Which one of the following is an example of a new, nontraditional attribute IC could introduce into its machine learning?
    A. Coverage limits
    B. Distance between home and fuel
    C. Building construction
    D. Construction and age of roof



22. Global Products Company is an international company that manufactures and distributes consumer nondurable products (food, pharmaceuticals, health and beauty, and cleaning products).  The products are manufactured in 15 countries and sold in 47 countries.  The company decided to centralize its data bases and to make them available to all divisions.  Katerina Kurtz was named the data manager.  Katerina immediately noticed that there was little documentation for each data base.  To ensure better usage of the data, Katerina asked each contributor to the data base to include background information about the data.  Such information would include when the data was collected, the source of the data, specified uses of the data, how the data could be accessed, any special codes used in the data, and when the data was next scheduled to be updated.  Such information about the data that Katerina sought to collect is called
    A. Data governance. 
    B. Metadata. 
    C. Big data. 
    D. Data decision rules. 





23. Liability Insurance Company (LIC) has had a problem with claims that seem small at first developing into large, complex claims a few months from first report. The first step LIC should take in the model development process is to determine the attributes of complex claims from training data. The second step LIC should take is to
    A. Validate the model by testing it on holdout data.
    B. Rank the relative importance of each attribute.
    C. Weigh the model's attributes according to their frequency.
    D. Decide on the data analytic technique to use.





24. The relationship between emerging technologies and decision making can be considered part of a connected ecosystem. Which one of the following best expresses the typical order within the emerging technology ecosystem for decision making?
    A. Smart products and smart operations – generate big data for – big data analytics – that are incorporated into – emerging technologies – to support risk decision making in – underwriting, claims and risk management.
    B. Big data analytics – is incorporated into – emerging technologies – that are incorporated into – smart products and smart operations – to support risk decision making in – underwriting, claims, and risk management.
    C. Risk decision making – generates – big data analytics – that are incorporated into – emerging technologies – to support smart products and smart operations in – underwriting, claims, and risk management.
    D. Emerging technologies – are incorporated into – smart products and smart operations – to generate big data for – big data analytics – to support risk decision making in – underwriting, claims, and risk management.



25. For a particular data mining project to be worthwhile, it is most important that it
    A. Discover knowledge that cannot be found otherwise.
    B. Be cost effective.
    C. Generate interesting findings.
    D. Leads to actions that can provide better business results.



26. Insurance Company (IC) owns a large amount of claims data. IC would like to know whether there are any meaningful correlations within the data. Which one of the following is a data mining technique that would be useful to IC?
    A. Unsupervised learning
    B. Attributive learning
    C. Variable learning
    D. Supervised learning



27. Jill, a claim manager, wants to find the relationship between two attributes, namely, the number of litigated claims and the number of non-litigated claims in a claim representative's caseload, and a target variable, which is the number of claims closed annually. Which one of the following is the name of a data analysis technique that Jill should use?
    A. Systematic modeling
    B. Classification tree
    C. Algorithmic operations
    D. Linear regression



28. The value of a target variable in a predictive model is known as a(n)
    A. Class label.
    B. Example.
    C. k nearest neighbor (k-NN).
    D. Nearest neighbor.



29. XYZ Insurance Company maintains an extensive computer database with information about its policyholders. Data for new policyholders is constantly added and data for existing policyholders is updated. Various algorithms are applied to the data to find useful relationships. An algorithm determined that policyholders with homes valued at more than 300,000 –and– who purchased auto liability insurance with at least a 250,000 per-person limit, would purchase a personal umbrella liability policy with at least a 2 million limit, seventy percent of the time. Based on this result, XYZ asked its agents to target existing policyholders with umbrella policy limits under 2 million and new policyholders in this category and seek to sell an umbrella policy with a 2 million limit. The machine learning technique XYZ applied is
    A. Text mining.
    B. Supervised segmentation.
    C. Cluster analysis.
    D. Association rule learning.



30. The use of telematics for usage-based insurance (UBI) is increasing. Which one of the following statements concerning UBI is true?
    A. A problem with UBI is that it relies heavily on the honesty of the policyholder.
    B. A problem with UBI is that it relies heavily on the perceptions of the policyholder.
    C. UBI is novel because it allows mileage and drive duration to be factored into underwriting.
    D. UBI requires sophisticated modeling techniques to make gathered information relevant.



31. In fault tree analysis, a top event is represented by
    A. An "and" gate on the tree.
    B. An "or" gate on the tree.
    C. A rectangle at the top of the tree.
    D. A branch of the tree.



32. Which one of the following most accurately explains the relationship between the terms?
    A. The four general types of AI are machine learning, deep learning, neural networks, and chatboxes.
    B. Artificial intelligence (AI), powered by machine learning and deep learning technologies, helps make sense of big data.
    C. Deep learning can be defined as AI in which computers continually teach themselves to make better decisions based on previous results.
    D. Machine learning and deep learning are subsets of AI, with machine learning most closely resembling human brain abilities.



33. The risk manager of Taylor Trucking Company (TTC) would like a good estimate of what the company will pay in retained physical damage losses to its fleet of vehicles next year. He has fifteen years of company data for two key variables – thousands of miles driven by TTC fleet vehicles and fleet physical damage losses. Using a computer program, the risk manager was able to determine the coordinates of a line that best fit the observations over the past fifteen years. Then the risk manager used the coordinates of the line and the estimated miles TTC fleet vehicles would travel next year to predict the physical damage losses for next year. The type of analysis the risk manager employed is called
    A. Cluster analysis.
    B. Linear regression analysis.
    C. Linear discriminant analysis.
    D. Logistic regression analysis.



34. Which one of the following is true regarding robotic process automation (RPA) and intelligent process automation (IPA)?
    A. RPA broadens the scope of IPA by incorporating technologies that mimic human perception and judgment.
    B. Without intelligence added to its system, RPA makes decisions that require judgment or empathy.
    C. RPA technology can be part of an overall business process management (BPM) plan , but should not replace the BPM.
    D. IPA allows organizations to automate basic, frequently repeatable processes, but not to monitor risk and make policy recommendations.



35. Insurance Company (IC) is contemplating taking on a commercial customer that is manufacturing a fairly new chemical product. IC is using text mining of social media to determine customers' perceptions of the new product. IC is finding that a certain use for the product has led to bad results. IC's findings could lead to
    A. A counter-campaign on social media.
    B. A distrust of predictive modeling within IC.
    C. A recommendation that the manufacturer seek less expensive insurance coverage.
    D. A recommendation that the manufacturer place a warning label on the product.



36. Insurance Company (IC) is analyzing risks in a data analytics project it is conducting. Which one of the following is an example of a component activity of IC's initiative for which risks should be scrutinized?
    A. Implementation of risk management techniques
    B. Identification of the means of acquiring the necessary data
    C. Avoidance or modification of risk factors
    D. Consideration of risk management techniques



37. InsureCo, an auto insurer, gives its insureds a telematics device to attach to vehicles it covers. The device provides InsureCo with data on its insureds' personal driving habits. Such telematics should probably be categorized as
    A. External data.
    B. Economic data.
    C. Sensory data.
    D. Unstructured data.



38. An important issue in using k-NN clustering to predict claim characteristics is what number k should equal. Which one of the following statements regarding an accurate method of k-NN clustering is true?
    A. k indicates the number of clusters and NN represents the cluster's centroids.
    B. The value of each distance is weighed based on its similarity to a new claim, and the nearest neighbors would have the most weight.
    C. The lower the number that is k, the more accurate the prediction is likely to be.
    D. The average of the values for the instances in each cluster is taken into consideration, and the nearest neighbor would have the least weight.



39. Which one of the following types of smart products is used to access potentially dangerous workplace areas without putting humans at risk?
    A. Smartphones
    B. Radio frequency identification tags
    C. Wearables
    D. Drones



40. News reports used by an insurer's underwriting and claim departments are an example of
    A. External structured data.
    B. Internal structured data.
    C. External unstructured data.
    D. Internal unstructured data.



41. Which one of the following statements regarding data quality is true?
    A. Data quality is an absolute concept, so if the data are acceptable for one use, they are acceptable for all uses. 
    B. Data quality has little impact on the success of decision-making at an organization. 
    C. Data quality can be managed and measured through the establishment of meaningful metrics. 
    D. Data quality assumes that all vetted and stored data are timely.  



42. Which one of the following statements regarding data characteristics is true?
    A. Only structured data can be perfect in terms of veracity.
    B. Veracity sets big data apart from traditional data.
    C. Unstructured big data usually has more veracity than structured data.
    D. Value refers to the completeness and accuracy of data.



43. Which one of the following statements is true regarding the introduction of machine learning into insurance underwriting?
    A. It tends to increase customer segmentation.
    B. It increases the need for subjective judgments.
    C. It finds the most desirable rates for all customers.
    D. It allows for fewer attributes in underwriting decisions.



44. Applying data analysis techniques to losses can improve the accuracy of loss development estimates and thereby help risk management professionals make better business decisions. This is especially true for which one of the following types of claims?
    A. Fungible
    B. Long-tail
    C. Property
    D. High-volume



45. A layer in a neural network in which neurons learn and recode information received from input data is known as the
    A. Hidden layer.
    B. Output layer.
    C. Input layer.
    D. Perimeter layer.



46. Which one of the following correctly describes a disadvantage of using vehicle telematics for insurance underwriting?
    A. Teenage drivers will realize that they are being monitored.
    B. The benefits are to the participants only, not to society in general.
    C. Data generated needs to be evaluated in context.
    D. There is no educational component to telematics.



47. Data mining is
    A. Obtaining information through language recognition.
    B. The process of returning information to its sources.
    C. The process of extracting hidden patterns from data.
    D. A network of objects transmitting data to computers.



48. In change management, which one of the following is responsible for creating the vision of a change and selling it to others?
    A. A department of data science
    B. The vice president of risk management
    C. The information technology department
    D. A center of excellence



49. Insurance Company (IC) is interested in using statistical methods to explore data to find groups with common and previously unknown characteristics in an effort to identify the need for new insurance products. A data mining technique that would be useful to IC is
    A. Regression analysis.
    B. Classification.
    C. Association rule learning.
    D. Cluster analysis.



50. Which one of the following would most likely be a legal or regulatory factor that could undermine a data analytics project being considered by a global organization?
    A. Ineffective or improperly located sensors
    B. The installing of sensors in remote locations
    C. A labor union's resistance to the wearing of tracking sensors
    D. A country's restrictions regarding Internet use